JACKSON, Mich. —  A jury has convicted a Michigan man of first-degree felony murder after he was accused of breaking into a home and shooting a woman while streaming the attack on Facebook Live.Twenty-year-old Anthony Gelia also was found guilty Monday of first-degree home invasion and a felony firearms charge stemming from the November 2016 killing of 26-year-old Brittany Southwell.Jurors appeared shaken Friday while they watched a Facebook Live recording recovered from Gelia's cellphone showing him kick in a door and open fire.A medical examiner said Southwell died from a bullet that entered her side and punctured her lungs.The Jackson Citizen Patriot reports Gelia is scheduled to be sentenced May 9. A felony murder conviction in Michigan carries a mandatory life sentence without the possibility of parole.___Information from: Jackson Citizen Patriot, http://www.mlive.com/jackson
NEW YORK —  Facebook's CEO apologized for the Cambridge Analytica scandal with ads in multiple U.S. and British newspapers Sunday, saying the social media platform doesn't deserve to hold personal information if it can't protect it.The ads signed by Mark Zuckerberg said a quiz app built by a Cambridge University researcher leaked Facebook data of millions of people four years ago. "This was a breach of trust, and I'm sorry we didn't do more at the time. We're now taking steps to make sure this doesn't happen again," the ads said.Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm affiliated with President Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign, got data inappropriately. The firm is alleged to have created psychological profiles to influence how people vote or even think about politics and society.Facebook's stock value has dropped more than $70 billion since the revelations were first published.Among the newspapers with the ads were The New York Times and The Washington Post in the U.S. and The Sunday Times and The Sunday Telegraph in the United Kingdom.The ads said Facebook is limiting the data apps receive when users sign in. It's also investigating every app that had access to large amounts of data. "We expect there are others. And when we find them, we will ban them and tell everyone affected," the ads stated.Zuckerberg closed the ads by saying: "I promise to do better for you."Cambridge Analytica got the data from a researcher who paid 270,000 Facebook users to complete a psychological profile quiz back in 2014. But the quiz gathered information on their friends as well, bringing the total number of people affected to about 50 million.The Trump campaign paid the firm $6 million during the 2016 election, although it has since distanced itself from Cambridge.
As questions mounted last year about whether Facebook had been exploited to tilt the U.S. presidential election, Mark Zuckerberg's to-do list landed him on a fishing trawler off Alabama's Gulf coast.But the chatter surrounding the CEO's arrival in port was that it signaled something bigger than just the start of a 30-state personal tour: his designs on a job even more powerful than leading the social network that links 2.2 billion people worldwide."It was one of the last things I asked him, thinking it would put a smile on his face — and it did," said Dominick Ficarino, who owns a shrimp business in Bayou La Batre, Alabama, and hosted a dockside lunch for Zuckerberg that Sunday afternoon."I asked him if he was interested in running for president of the United States. And his answer to me was: 'Can I answer you with a question? If you were me, would you?'"Thirteen months later, Zuckerberg no longer has the luxury of mulling a hypothetical next act. Instead, he is grappling with a crisis that has enveloped the company synonymous with his face and name. It does not help that the most glaring reminder of Facebook's flaws is the unabated uproar over the American presidency itself."The world feels anxious and divided, and Facebook has a lot of work to do," Zuckerberg wrote in January, laying out the "personal challenge" that he sets for himself each year.In 2017, the billionaire challenged himself to travel to every state he'd never visited. This year, long after critics began demanding an overhaul, Zuckerberg said his personal goal is to "fix" the platform that he has engineered to build community — but that is increasingly blamed for warping it.Yet things continue to get worse. Scrutiny of Facebook has intensified following reports that it failed to prevent the data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica from amassing personal information about millions of users — possibly used to aid Donald Trump's campaign — and that the social network has been collecting Android users' phone call and text message histories without notice. That adds to criticism that Facebook manipulates its users and has allowed Russian bots to divide Americans by spreading false information.On Monday, the Federal Trade Commission announced it was investigating Facebook for its privacy practices.Throughout the mounting crisis, Zuckerberg's response has been a study in contradictions. He crisscrossed the country, even as his company back home came under increasing fire. He preaches transparency, but flinches at questioning and craves privacy. He is undeniably brilliant, but stubborn in his reluctance to acknowledge the extent of Facebook's problems.Even his critics say he is uniquely capable of righting the ship. But at 33, is he prepared to do all it will take?"If he fails to do it, it may take a while but eventually people are going to rebel," said Roger McNamee, an early Facebook investor and adviser who has become one of the company's most pointed critics."I thought Facebook was a force for good in the world for a really long time," McNamee said. "I think it's really hard to make that case today."___Days after Trump's election, Zuckerberg was pressed on the possibility that foreign agents had used his social network to divide voters."The idea that fake news on Facebook ... influenced the election in any way, I think, is a pretty crazy idea," the CEO told the audience at a California technology conference."I think all of us were shocked to learn how wrong he was," said David Kirkpatrick, the author of a 2010 book about Facebook who questioned Zuckerberg that day. "You can certainly say that he was culpable, in that he was naive and inattentive to what was happening in his system. But I don't think he was lying."Zuckerberg walked back the remark soon after, continuing a years-long routine of self-correction. But errors that reflect his stubbornness, those who know him say, are tempered by an eagerness to learn from mistakes and a deep sense of reflection.Donald Graham, the former chairman of the Washington Post Co., recalled that when he met Zuckerberg in 2005, outsiders still weren't sure what to make of Facebook."I would ask him a question and he would pause long enough — 15 seconds, 20 seconds — that I would think 'Did I insult him? Did he not hear me?'" said Graham, who went on to serve on the company's board from 2008 to 2015."Since I am from Washington, I'm not used to people thinking before they are answering a question. ... But Mark, then as now, was thinking about the right answer."Zuckerberg's boyish appearance, even today, is a reminder of just how young he was when he created what would become the world's biggest social network, back in his dorm room at Harvard."I didn't know anything about building a company or global internet service," he wrote in January. "Over the years I've made almost every mistake you can imagine."Naomi Gleit, Facebook's longest-serving employee after the CEO, said Zuckerberg — who declined an interview request from The Associated Press — has been talking about making the world a better place since he was 21. But his view of that world and his place in it "seemed almost like a gravity, a burden of responsibility," she said.That seriousness coincides with a sense of certainty.Gleit recalled Zuckerberg's steadfast attachment to a Facebook message service similar to email, even as more people began using phones to send text messages. But co-workers eventually swayed the CEO, who she described as a "learn-it-all." That change-of-mind informed Facebook's 2014 purchase of the WhatsApp messaging service for $19 billion."I think he would even say now that he was initially wrong," Gleit said.With Zuckerberg, "its experiment, learn, experiment, learn," said LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, who has known him since 2004. Hoffman said that is evident in Zuckerberg's enthusiasm for software, which can be overwritten to fix problems. That facility, he said, makes Zuckerberg the equal of executives with far more experience.But in the process of learning, Zuckerberg's inexperience has sometimes played out in public view.___In 2010, Zuckerberg announced on Oprah Winfrey's television show that he would donate $100 million to schools in Newark, New Jersey.Critics labeled it an attempt to polish his image, just as the biopic "The Social Network" was being released. Still, there was little questioning his generosity. The problem was that Zuckerberg — who knew little about education — made the gift with few specifics outlining how it should be spent."He was just a very young, naive, inexperienced guy who was brilliant at technology and computers and the internet, but just really didn't know much about how the world worked," said Dale Russakoff, author of "The Prize," a book chronicling how the money went to high-priced consultants, with minimal effort by leaders to build community support.By the end of the process, Zuckerberg had developed a clearer understanding of how to get things done. He and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan, have since chartered their own foundation and structured it to take on mammoth goals, like a $3 billion investment to cure, prevent or manage all diseases. He has pledged to donate 99 percent of his Facebook stock to philanthropy."Zuck's maturation has occurred in front of the public," said Kirkpatrick, author of "The Facebook Effect: The Inside Story of the Company that Is Connecting the World." ''But he also still lives with the consequences of the decisions he made when he was less mature."At Facebook, Zuckerberg has grown increasingly bold in using huge sums of money to pursue corporate goals, which includes purchasing competitors — or companies that could grow into competitors.Facebook's $1 billion purchase of Instagram in 2012 — then unprofitable and little-known — came as a shock to Wall Street. Two years later came the multibillion-dollar deal to buy WhatsApp, a company that remains unprofitable but has given Facebook a prime portal into developing countries and other regions outside the U.S.In 2014, soon after Facebook bought a virtual reality firm called Oculus, Zuckerberg found himself being grilled in a lawsuit brought by a competitor who accused an Oculus executive of stealing trade secrets. Under questioning, he talked about the pressure he exerted to make the Oculus deal happen, and his vision of growing it so fast "that we can get every developer and studio in the world building just for Oculus before any big competitor exists."Last year, in a bid to free up his fortune for philanthropy, Zuckerberg pushed board members to restructure Facebook's stock, allowing him to sell off part of his stake while maintaining control. That prompted a suit by a group of shareholders who argued that the move would benefit only Zuckerberg while diluting the value of other investors' stakes. Days before Zuckerberg was scheduled to testify as part of the suit, the company dropped the plan.The gambit hints at the complexity of being Zuckerberg, who advocates for transparency and the interests of the community but whose individual interests don't always align.The paradox is self-inflicted, the trade-off for creating a venture premised on users' willingness to share details of their lives. That requires Zuckerberg, who has 105 million Facebook "friends," to reveal far more about himself than would be expected of any other CEO, whether its photos of him and Chan baking sweets for the Jewish holiday of Purim or dressing their daughters for the Chinese New Year.Yet he fiercely guards his privacy.When calls went out last year for Zuckerberg to testify before a Senate committee, the company sent its lawyer. And when he and Chan bought 700 acres on the Hawaiian island of Kauai last year, they quietly filed lawsuits against hundreds of Hawaiians — withdrawn after protests — that would have cut off locals' access to the land by negating their interest in small ancestral tracts within the estate's boundaries."Intellectually, he believes in transparency," Kirkpatrick said. "But emotionally, it's very difficult for him."____Facebook works hard to present Zuckerberg as someone deeply interested in the ordinary people whose lives are at the heart of its business.Stops on last year's U.S. tour, never announced, were set up by facilitators who revealed details to only a select few. But many of the visits were covered by the media and documented in professional-quality photos on Zuckerberg's Facebook page soon after he'd departed.Ostensibly, the idea was for Zuckerberg to learn. But in their brief interactions, many people were just as interested in finding a way to connect with him.In Hazard, Kentucky, educator Paul Green became custodian of the small town's biggest secret. A staffer from Zuckerberg's foundation, peppering Green with questions about the region's educational cooperative, finally admitted it was because the CEO himself wanted to visit. Green's reward for keeping it quiet was seeing the wide-eyed grins when Zuckerberg pulled up and greeted local high schoolers studying robotics and programming.Walking through science demonstrations, Zuckerberg spent more time trading tech tales with the teenagers than quizzing the teachers."He just lit up with those kids," Green said. "The way he talked with them about some of the things he did when he was in school and his passion for technology, it really was cool."When Zuckerberg toured an oil rig near Williston, North Dakota, last July, "from the minute he got out of the car to the minute he got back in the car, he was nothing but questions," said Ron Ness, president of the North Dakota Petroleum Council, which arranged the visit."I had Bakken shale, limestone, dolomite, and he was able to hold them in his hand, along with a bottle of crude oil. And I remember him asking, 'How do you get that oil out of that rock?'" geologist Kathleen Neset said.In Dayton, Ohio, Zuckerberg met with officials, caregivers and families battling drug addiction. Lori Erion, the founder of the group Families of Addicts, said she told him what it was like to learn her daughter, April, had shot up heroin in their own home."It seemed to get him really emotional," Erion said, recalling how Zuckerberg stood up suddenly and told the group he needed a few minutes to steady himself. When he returned, he asked what makes an addict stay clean and how families got their loved ones into treatment."We didn't ever talk about Facebook at all," Erion said, "which is really interesting because Facebook is really the main way of us getting information out. He really was just like a regular person."___As Zuckerberg connected with Americans face-to-face, controversy over Facebook continued to spiral.Shortly before the election, McNamee sent a letter to Zuckerberg and Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, warning that Facebook was being manipulated in ways its creators never intended. It wasn't just about the U.S. election: A consulting firm had collected data on people interested in the Black Lives Matter movement and sold it to police departments, and critics had detected a well-organized, clandestine campaign supporting Brexit.All this pointed to a deep problem with Facebook — that it was simply not equipped or not willing to prevent the misuse of its platform.McNamee said he has been disappointed in the incremental changes announced since.Facebook has adopted this "libertarian philosophy that says 'we are not responsible for anything downstream, we are allowed to disrupt media, we are allowed to addict our users and we are not responsible for any of the consequences of any of that,'" he said.Zuckerberg could change that. But McNamee said it is not enough to hire thousands of workers to weed through fake and abusive posts if those posts keep getting through. And tweaking Facebook's newsfeed so users see more posts from families and friends does not address his certainty that the algorithms underlying Facebook make it dangerously addictive."You cannot cure addiction by doing more of the thing that got you addicted in the first place, which is what Zuck recommends," McNamee wrote in an email.Critics say Facebook continues to ignore the possibility of the social network being used for dark purposes, but Zuckerberg's supporters counter that he is unfairly blamed for problems he could not have foreseen.Hoffman, the LinkedIn co-founder, credits Zuckerberg with leading Facebook through a shift in mindset, making changes that will nudge users into a more positive virtual environment — without completely shutting out inflammatory content."Facebook basically is saying we enable people based on the way they behave. That's a very democratic argument. If people want to live in filter bubbles, who are we to say 'Don't live in filter bubbles,' even though we don't want them to?" Hoffman said.But Kirkpatrick argued that Zuckerberg's and Sandberg's surety that Facebook has a positive impact on society has blinded them to parallel realities. The company can't be fixed, Kirkpatrick said, until Zuckerberg comes to terms with existential threats to the way the social network does business — its potential to negatively affect democracy and the way it hooks in users."There's no question in my mind that Mark Zuckerberg is an ethical and responsible human being who wants to do the right thing," he said. "However, I do not think he has yet grasped the gravity with which his service is being perceived to be a socially harmful force all around the world. And I also don't think he realizes the extent to which that really is true."McNamee, recalling Zuckerberg as a 22-year-old visionary, said the CEO must be willing to rethink long-held assumptions. But that does not mean he has to abandon building his global community."You've won," McNamee said he would tell Zuckerberg if asked again for his counsel."You've achieved more than your wildest dreams. You're a billionaire. Now you have a chance to be a hero."
NEW YORK —  Twitter says it will ban or restrict advertisements related to cryptocurrencies in an attempt to crack down on fraud. The move follows similar steps by Facebook and Google earlier this year.Twitter said the new rules will roll out starting Tuesday and will apply to all advertisers in about a month. The new policy prohibits ads for initial coin offerings, in which a startup issues a currency that can be used to buy services with the company.Ads for cryptocurrency exchanges and wallet services, meanwhile, will be restricted and limited to those that are provided by a public company under Twitter's new policy.The price of a bitcoin dropped below $8,000 on Monday.
Facebook said it would roll out a centralized system for its users to control their privacy and security settings in response to an outcry over the way it has handled personal data.The system, which will be introduced to Facebook users globally over the coming weeks, will allow people to change their privacy and security settings from one place rather than having to go to roughly 20 separate sections across the social media platform.From the new page, users can control the personal information the social network keeps on them, such as their political preferences or interests, and download and review a file of data Facebook has collected about them. Facebook also will clarify what types of apps people are currently using and what permissions those apps have to gather their information.Facebook began developing the centralized system last year but sped it up after revelations that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly harvested the information of 50 million users of the social network. The amount of data Cambridge Analytica obtained about Facebook users reawakened fears over how much information the social network has gathered about people, leading to a #DeleteFacebook movement and other criticism.“The last week showed how much more work we need to do to enforce our policies, and to help people understand how Facebook works and the choices they have over their data,” Erin Egan, Facebook’s chief privacy officer, and Ashlie Beringer, a Facebook deputy general counsel, said in a statement announcing the new system. “We’ve heard loud and clear that privacy settings and other important tools are too hard to find, and that we must do more to keep people informed.”The Cambridge Analytica scandal has plunged Facebook into its worst crisis in years, with regulators and lawmakers in the United States and Britain demanding answers about how the social network deals with data privacy. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, has agreed to appear in front of lawmakers on Capitol Hill next month, people familiar with the decision have said.Last week, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a statement that Facebook had to do better with user data and promised to roll out products that give users more control over their information and privacy settings.“One of our biggest responsibilities is to protect data,” he told The New York Times last week. “Whenever there’s an issue where someone’s data gets passed to someone who the rules of the system shouldn’t have allowed it to, that’s rightfully a big issue and deserves to be a big uproar.Late Wednesday, Facebook also said that it was halting its practice of allowing advertisers to target ads using information from third-party data brokers. These are business-to-business companies that can collect a vast range of details about individual consumers such as their shopping habits, health concerns, income range and preferred credit card.The social network had previously allowed advertisers to use consumer details from data brokers like Experian, Acxiom and Oracle’s Datalogix unit to help target ads to Facebook users. But Facebook said it was now mothballing that option, called “Partner Categories.””We want to let advertisers know that we will be shutting down Partner Categories,” Graham Mudd, a product marketing director at Facebook, said in a statement.“This product enables third-party data providers to offer their targeting directly on Facebook,” he added. “While this is common industry practice, we believe this step, winding down over the next six months, will help improve people’s privacy on Facebook.”In 2012, the Federal Trade Commission opened an inquiry into data brokers and subsequently recommended that Congress consider enacting a law “to make data broker practices more visible to consumers and to give consumers greater control over the immense amounts of personal information about them collected and shared by data brokers.”How much of a difference these actions may make to Facebook’s data privacy practices was unclear. Some privacy advocates noted, for instance, that the company’s new centralized privacy and security settings page has been tried in the past.“The platform made similar promises many times before,” said Zeynep Tufekci, an associate professor at the University of North Carolina who studies how technology affects society. She pointed out that in 2010, Mr. Zuckerberg said in The Washington Post that Facebook users needed simpler controls over their privacy and had promised then that Facebook would “add privacy controls that are much simpler to use.”Yet eight years later, the same concerns have resurfaced, Ms. Tufekci said.“The past decade shows that user concerns over privacy appear to have little teeth on changing how the platform behaves, aside from a recycling of contrite statements and promises to do better from its C.E.O.,” she said.
Fair housing groups filed a lawsuit in federal court on Tuesday saying that Facebook continues to discriminate against certain groups, including women, disabled veterans and single mothers, in the way that it allows advertisers to target the audience for their ads. The suit comes as the social network is scrambling to deal with an international crisis over the misuse of data belonging to 50 million of its users.Facebook, an advertising behemoth with more than two billion users a month, provides advertisers with the ability to customize their messages and target who sees them by selecting from preset lists of demographics, likes, behaviors and interests, while excluding others.Pet food companies, for example, could send their ads specifically to people who had indicated an interest in dogs, while excluding cat and bird fanciers.When it comes to housing and employment ads, Facebook, in response to criticism over the last 17 months, has repeatedly promised that it would crack down on advertisers who use those same tools to show housing or employment ads to whites only.But in the lawsuit filed Tuesday in U.S. District Court in Manhattan, the National Fair Housing Alliance and affiliated groups in New York, San Antonio and Miami contend that Facebook’s advertising platform “continues to enable landlords and real estate brokers to bar families with children, women and others from receiving rental and sales ads for housing.”Diane L. Houk of Emery Celli Brinckerhoff & Abady, a lawyer who worked on the lawsuit, said the groups want the court to require Facebook to take action.“We want the court to order Facebook to develop a plan to remove any ability for advertisers to access Facebook’s checklists for excluding groups of people in the posting of housing-related ads,” Ms. Houk said. “Because of Facebook’s impact on the housing market, we’ll ask the court to implement a plan of community education and outreach to housing providers to inform them of their obligation not to discriminate.”The suit says Facebook’s actions are a violation of the Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to publish housing ads that indicate preferences or limitations based on race color, religion, handicaps, familial status or national origin.“Facebook’s ability to customize an online audience for advertisements based on its vast trove of user data has made it the biggest advertising agency in the world — the advertising platform of choice for millions of businesses,” the lawsuit states. “But Facebook has abused its enormous power.”The criticisms go directly to the heart of Facebook’s business. The social network earned nearly all of its more than $40 billion in revenue in 2017 by selling ads on its network.“There is absolutely no place for discrimination on Facebook. We believe this lawsuit is without merit, and we will defend ourselves vigorously,” a Facebook spokesman said.The lawsuit is only the latest problem for Facebook. Earlier this month, Facebook became embroiled in a major crisis over the mishandling of data from 50 million users. The information was ultimately used by Cambridge Analytica, which was working on behalf of Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign.State and federal regulators are now assessing whether the transfer of data violated privacy agreements struck under prior consent decrees. Facebook is the subject of privacy investigations in Europe as well. As a result, the company’s stock price has swooned with investors fearing the prospect of new regulations.“Facebook is essential to the information flow that comprises our public discourse,” said Olivier Sylvain, a law professor at Fordham Law School, who is not involved in the suit. “But in that role, they should take on the responsibility of minding the flow of information, including the algorithms that produce the results.”To test its case, the National Fair Housing Alliance created an ad for a fictitious apartment rental in Washington, D.C., using Facebook’s features to exclude “corporate moms,” “stay-at-home moms” and other categories that would eliminate women from the ad’s potential audience. Facebook estimated that the ads would reach 48,000 to 820,000 people, the lawsuit said.In New York, the Fair Housing Justice Center created an ad for a rental apartment by selecting “no kids” and “men” from the inclusion list and “moms of grade school kids” and other groups from the exclusion list. Facebook estimated that the ad would reach 280,000 people.The lawsuit says that Facebook also provides “interests” categories for housing ads that permit a landlord or real estate agent to exclude users based on disability-related factors, like “Interest in Disabled Parking Permit,” or “disabled veteran,” and on the basis of national origin, by eliminating those with, say, an “Interest in Telemundo,” the Spanish language television network, or English as a second language.“The way people find housing in 2018 is radically different than when the Fair Housing Act was passed in 1968,” said Robert Schwemm, a law professor at the University of Kentucky and author of “Housing Discrimination: Law and Litigation.”But, he added, “the Fair Housing Act makes it illegal to target certain groups while excluding others.”“The courts have taken discriminatory housing ads very seriously,” he said.Some online companies accused of discrimination have cited the 1996 Communications Decency Act as a defense. That law essentially says that platforms that merely allow third parties to post material cannot be held liable for something that is discriminatory.But, Mr. Schwemm said, Facebook is another matter.“By allowing housing advertisers to click certain boxes in order to refine their ads and exclude certain protected groups, Facebook is more than just a neutral conveyor of information, like, say, a phone company, which is not liable for its customers’ discriminatory ads or statements.”ProPublica, a nonprofit newsroom dedicated to investigative journalism, raised the issue of discriminatory housing ads in an October 2016 article that described how advertisers could keep users who were black, Hispanic or had other “ethnic affinities” from seeing housing ads.That got the attention of the National Fair Housing Alliance, which sent a letter to Facebook saying that its ad practices appeared to violate fair-housing laws and asked for a meeting. In November 2016, Facebook said it would disable the use of “ethnic affinity marketing for ads that we identify as offering housing employment or credit.”A year ago, Facebook said its policy expressly forbid ads that have discriminatory content.But a second article by ProPublica in November found that housing ads that specifically excluded African-Americans, people interested in wheelchair ramps, Jews and Spanish speakers could still be placed on Facebook’s platform.The following month, an article by The New York Times and ProPublica found that national employers like Verizon, Goldman Sachs and Amazon had placed job recruitment ads limited to certain age groups, while hundreds of millions of other internet users never saw the ads.“We thought they were sincere,” said Lisa Rice, president of the National Fair Housing Alliance. “But they have not changed their content, their platform and their systems to preclude advertisers from discriminating. When you think that Facebook has over two billion active users, that’s pretty significant.”
BRASILIA —  A Brazilian judge has ordered that Facebook Inc pay 111.7 million reais ($33.4 million) for failing to cooperate with a corruption investigation, federal prosecutors said on Thursday, prompting Facebook to say it was exploring "all legal options."The judge fined Facebook for failing to give access in 2016 to WhatsApp messages exchanged by individuals under investigation for defrauding the healthcare system of Brazil's Amazonas state, the prosecutors said in a statement.In an emailed comment sent to Reuters, Facebook called the fine groundless."Facebook cooperates with law enforcement. In this particular case we have disclosed the data required by applicable law," the statement said. "We understand this fine lacks grounds, and are exploring all legal options at our disposal."According to federal police, a Brazilian judge ordered in April 2016 that Facebook give authorities access to the WhatsApp messages in question.The fine amounted to 1 million reais plus interest for every day Facebook did not comply with the order, beginning when it took effect in mid-June 2016, and ending when the corruption investigation was made public that September, police said.Through the probe known as "Operacao Maus Caminhos," or "Operation Bad Paths," federal police exposed the embezzlement of tens of millions of reais of public funds.(Reporting by Ricardo Brito; Writing by Gram Slattery; Editing by Leslie Adler and Tom Brown)
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. —  Missouri Attorney General Josh Hawley is demanding information from Facebook following allegations that the social media giant mishandled user data.The Republican Senate candidate announced Monday that his office issued a civil investigative demand, which functions like a subpoena. It seeks details on how Facebook collects and shares user information.Facebook didn't immediately comment when contacted by The Associated Press.Hawley is among 37 attorneys general who signed a letter last week asking Facebook similar questions. The Federal Trade Commission is also investigating.Hawley's announcement follows revelations that a consulting firm affiliated with President Donald Trump got data on millions of unsuspecting Facebook users. Facebook is also facing criticism for collecting years of data on call and text histories from Android users.Hawley is running for Democratic U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill's seat.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. A collective response to Russia, an adult film star’s record ratings, and a mysterious train arrives in Beijing. Here’s what you need to know: •  Sixty diplomats expelled, the Seattle consulate shut.The U.S. joined European allies in kicking out Russian officials over the nerve gas poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter on British soil. It’s President Trump’s toughest action yet against the Kremlin. Here’s how this compares with past espionage feuds.The coordinated response is a win for Britain’s prime minister, Theresa May, and a show of unity by NATO allies after a year of fraying ties.Separately, Mr. Trump is essentially down to a one-man legal defense team in the Russia investigation after two newly hired lawyers bowed out._____• President Trump has been quiet as two women — a pornographic film star and a Playboy model — have publicly claimed that they had affairs with him, but that doesn’t mean he’s happy about it. (Melania Trump, too, has been silent.)In a “60 Minutes” interview, the porn actress Stormy Daniels, above, said that she and her daughter were threatened in Las Vegas by a man who told her: “Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.”The actress said the threat influenced her decision to accept $130,000 for her silence about the alleged affair. She is now suing to get out of that agreement.(The “60 Minutes” interview drew 22 million viewers, the highest ratings for the program in almost a decade.)_____• “An absolute win-win.” Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin hailed President Trump’s first major trade deal: South Korea won an exemption from U.S. steel and aluminum tariffs by agreeing to import more American cars and reducing its steel exports.The deal soothed fears, at least for the moment, about a global trade war. A bigger battle looms over Made in China 2025, Beijing’s plan to dominate advanced industries._____• Is Kim Jong-un in Beijing?The question emerged after a video showed an old-style green train — similar to one used by used by North Korea’s leaders — arriving in the Chinese capital amid high security.There was no official pronouncement from China or North Korea. But the Japanese broadcaster NTV showed footage of what it said was the train, raising the possibility that a powerful envoy or even Mr. Kim himself may be visiting.Journalists also spotted a military honor guard welcoming a convoy that entered the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse, above, where top North Korean leaders have been known to stay._____• Hong Kong’s housing market is so tight that “nano flats,” smaller than 200 square feet, are all the rage. (A parking spot just sold for $664,000.)The city is considering some other unusual proposals to ease the squeeze: turning drain pipes into tiny apartments, above, and warehousing people on cruise ships before they get permanent shelter on artificial islands.• Uber is out of Southeast Asia. The U.S. company agreed to sell its ride-hailing and food-delivery business in the region to Grab, a rival in Singapore. Uber sold its China operations to Didi in 2016 and retreated from Russia in 2017.• Facebook stock fell as much as 6.5 percent after the Federal Trade Commission confirmed it was investigating the company’s privacy practices.• Remington, the U.S. firearm company founded in 1816, filed for bankruptcy amid mounting debt and slow sales.• Alibaba and Ford unveiled an unstaffed car vending machine — five-stories tall and containing 42 cars of various models — in Guangzhou, China.• U.S. stocks rose sharply on news of the U.S.-South Korea trade deal. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• In Russia, emergency exits were blocked and a security guard had switched off the fire alarm in a shopping mall in Siberia that burned on Sunday, killing at least 64 people, including many children. [The New York Times]• Malaysia is considering an anti-fake news bill, with those convicted of disseminating false content facing up to 10 years in prison. [BBC]• A U.S. water slide that decapitated a 10-year-old boy violated basic engineering standards, and park officials knew it posed serious dangers, an indictment said. [The New York Times]• In Japan, home to the world’s oldest population, prisons have become a haven for lonely older women in search of community and stability. [Bloomberg]• A pothole epidemic has turned the streets of Rome, the city that built an empire on its roads, into an embarrassing mess. [The New York Times]• An 2,500-year-old Egyptian coffin that had been stored at Sydney University for 150 years was found to be filled with human remains, shocking archaeologists who thought it was empty. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Is it time to give up on fish oil? Not all supplements carry the same health benefits.• Whether or not you have kids, creating a will is about your legacy.• Recipe of the day: Try a different kind of pizza topped with caramelized onions, figs, bacon and blue cheese.• “I feel I’m in Japan,” Vincent van Gogh wrote to his brother, although he’d never been there. The Dutch painter, in fact, became obsessed by Japanese art. An exhibition in Amsterdam explores how that fascination shaped his work, like “Almond Blossom,” above.• Is it love if it’s not on Instagram? In an Op-Ed, a writer questions — and laments — the blurring of people’s personal and online lives.• Add your voice: We’re preparing our coverage of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who connected his fight for civil rights in the U.S. to the global reality of racism and poverty. We’d like to hear what he means to you.On this day in 1915, Mary Mallon, nicknamed “Typhoid Mary,” was placed in quarantine for the second time in New York City. Though she never displayed any symptoms of the disease, she would be confined for the rest of her life.In 1906, health officials tied Ms. Mallon to outbreaks of typhoid fever in seven wealthy families for whom she had worked as a cook.She was confirmed to be a carrier of the disease and quarantined. Doctors released her in 1910 under the condition that she no longer work as a cook. Shortly after, she disappeared.Ms. Mallon was rediscovered in 1915 by officials investigating a typhoid outbreak in a Manhattan hospital. She had been working there as a cook under an assumed name.She was then quarantined for 23 years, until her death in 1938 from the effects of a stroke.During her life, the public was fascinated by Ms. Mallon, above. She often appeared in news stories and cartoons, with one depicting her frying skulls in a pan. She was frustrated by the attention, and by her captivity, once describing herself as “a peep show for everybody.”Her case is often referenced during public health crises, such as the Ebola epidemic, in debates over the power of officials to quarantine people they believe are disease carriers.Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. A collective response to Russia, a brutal hate crime in France and a mysterious train in Beijing. Here’s the latest:• Sixty diplomats expelled, the Seattle consulate shut.The United States joined European allies in kicking out Russian officials over the nerve gas poisoning of a former Russian spy and his daughter on British soil. But President Trump avoided any public condemnation of Russia’s role in the attack.We examine how an outraged Europe agreed to the hard line against Vladimir Putin, Russia’s president. The coordinated response is a win for Britain’s prime minister, Theresa May, and a show of unity by NATO allies after a year of fraying ties.The expulsions were Mr. Trump’s toughest action yet against the Kremlin. In the special investigation into his ties to Russia, Mr. Trump is essentially down to a one-man legal defense team after two newly hired lawyers bowed out._____• “To attack a Jew is to attack France.”That was French interior minister, Gérard Collomb, condemning the brutal murder in Paris of Mireille Knoll, an 85-year-old Jewish woman who had survived the Holocaust.A number of anti-Semitic episodes have shaken France, and the speed with which the authorities labeled Ms. Knoll’s killing, in the apartment building above, a hate crime is being seen as a reaction to anger at the official response to the murder last year of another older Jewish woman.That woman was killed by a man who shouted, “God is great” and threw her out a window. Prosecutors took months to characterize that crime as anti-Semitic._____• President Trump secured his first major trade deal. The U.S. and South Korea agreed to renegotiate their trade pact, with Seoul exempted from tariffs on steel and aluminum in exchange for reducing its steel exports and opening its market to American cars.The deal, discussed by South Korea’s trade minister, above, looked like early vindication of the White House’s efforts to use the tariffs as a bargaining chip.Meanwhile, many are wondering if Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s reclusive leader, is in Beijing. The question emerged after a video showed an old-style green train — similar to one previously used by North Korea’s leaders — arriving in the Chinese capital amid high security._____• Anti-abortion campaigners have flooded Ireland as the country prepares to vote in May on a referendum on whether to repeal its ban on abortion.But not all of them are Irish, raising fears of foreign interference in the vote._____• A “shocking betrayal.”A U.S. Army veteran who served two tours of duty in Afghanistan was deported to Mexico after his application for citizenship was denied because of a felony drug conviction.The case of Miguel Perez-Montes (above, in a photo held by his father), who had been given a diagnosis of P.T.S.D., rose to prominence after a U.S. senator who served in Iraq appealed to the Department of Homeland Security to stay his deportation._____• The diplomatic tensions between the West and Russia appear to be dampening interest in visiting Russia for the 2018 World Cup, at least for soccer fans in the United States and England. • Our reporters uncovered the ways one of President Trump’s top fund-raisers leveraged his political connections to help his business, an illustration of a new breed of access peddling proliferating in the Washington swamp Mr. Trump vowed to drain.• Hong Kong’s housing market is so tight that “nano flats,” smaller than 200 square feet, are all the rage. (A parking spot just sold for $664,000.)• Grindr, the world’s largest gay-dating app, will offer users frequent H.I.V. test reminders.• Facebook stock fell as much as 6.5 percent after the Federal Trade Commission confirmed it was investigating the company’s privacy practices.• U.S. stock markets had their best day in nearly three years amid reported trade negotiations between the U.S. and China. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• In Russia, emergency exits were blocked and a security guard had switched off the fire alarm in a shopping mall in Siberia that burned down on Sunday, killing at least 64 people, including many children. [The New York Times]• In the U.S., some supporters of the far right and the National Rifle Association are using doctored photos to villainize the teenage survivors of last month’s school shooting in Florida and undermine their campaign for gun control. [The Washington Post]• British whistle-blowers questioned the integrity of Britain’s vote to leave the E.U., presenting 50 pages of documents that they say prove the official Brexit campaign group violated election finance rules. [The Associated Press]• Senior officials from Cricket Australia are investigating the national team’s ball-tampering scandal in South Africa, which has shocked Australians and outraged fans of a sport that has always professed some moral sanctimony. [The New York Times]• South Sudan, the world’s youngest nation, appears to have stopped Guinea worm disease within its borders. [The New York Times]• A 2,500-year-old Egyptian coffin that had been stored at a university in Australia for 150 years was found to be filled with human remains, shocking archaeologists who thought it was empty. [ABC]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• How to lose weight? Here’s one conclusion from a much-discussed study: The best diet is the one you can stick to.• Is it time to give up on fish oil? Not all supplements carry the same health benefits.• Whether or not you have children, creating a will is about your legacy.• Recipe of the day: Try a different kind of pizza topped with caramelized onions, figs, bacon and blue cheese.• “I feel I’m in Japan,” Vincent van Gogh wrote to his brother, although he’d never been there. The Dutch painter, in fact, became obsessed by Japanese art. An exhibition in Amsterdam explores how that fascination shaped his work, like “Almond Blossom,” above.• Add your voice: We’re preparing our coverage of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who connected his fight for civil rights in the U.S. to the global reality of racism and poverty. We’d like to hear what he means to you.On this day in 1915, Mary Mallon, nicknamed Typhoid Mary, was placed in quarantine for the second time in New York City. Though she never displayed any symptoms of the disease, she would be confined for the rest of her life.In 1906, health officials tied Ms. Mallon to outbreaks of typhoid fever in seven wealthy families for whom she had worked as a cook.She was confirmed to be a carrier of the disease and quarantined. Doctors released her in 1910 under the condition that she no longer work as a cook. Shortly after, she disappeared.Ms. Mallon was rediscovered in 1915 by officials investigating a typhoid outbreak in a Manhattan hospital. She had been working there as a cook under an assumed name.She was then quarantined for 23 years, until her death in 1938 after a stroke.During her life, the public was fascinated by Ms. Mallon, above. She often appeared in news stories and cartoons, with one depicting her frying skulls in a pan. She was frustrated by the attention and by her captivity, once describing herself as “a peep show for everybody.”Her case is often referenced during public health crises, such as the Ebola epidemic, in debates over the power of officials to quarantine people they believe carry diseases.Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
