 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Mark Zuckerberg, the social media giant’s chief executive, publicly addressed the crisis facing his company, five days after reports about the misuse of data from 50 million of its users.“We also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it,” he wrote in a statement outlining the steps Facebook would take to better protect users’ information. He also spoke to The Times about his plans for change.Given that the gathering of user data is fundamental to the company’s operations, lawmakers and researchers were unimpressed by Mr. Zuckerberg’s mea culpa: “He avoided the big issue, which is that for many years, Facebook was basically giving away user data like it was handing out candy,” a Columbia University researcher said.• Disillusioned Facebook users  have been leaving the service. Want to delete your account? You can try.• A pair of pink construction gloves led to Mark Anthony Conditt, who the police say was responsible for a string of bombings in the Texas capital.On Wednesday, Mr. Conditt, a 23-year-old from the Austin suburbs with no criminal record, detonated one of his homemade devices and killed himself before he could be apprehended. Here’s what we know about him.• The authorities are now trying to determine a motive. They’re being helped by a 25-minute confession the suspect left on his phone.• President Trump has said the country is an “economic enemy” of the U.S. that has “taken advantage of us like nobody in history.”Today, he plans to announce tariffs on at least $50 billion of annual Chinese imports and to impose other penalties in response to the theft of technology and trade secrets. Previously announced tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, which will also affect China, go into effect on Friday.China’s staggering economic growth has indeed been propelled by unfair trade practices, but experts worry that the president’s go-it-alone approach undermines the potential for collective action.• On Wednesday, Mr. Trump appeared to endorse a $1.3 trillion spending deal reached by Congress. Lawmakers must approve the bill by midnight Friday to avoid a government shutdown.• President’s Trump’s lead lawyer for the special counsel investigation resigned today, according to two people briefed on the matter.The lawyer, John Dowd, who took over the president’s legal team last summer, had considered leaving several times and ultimately concluded that Mr. Trump was increasingly ignoring his advice, one of the people said.• The president has said that he would agree to an interview with the office of the special counsel, Robert Mueller, but Mr. Dowd has said that was a bad idea.• At the request of Congress, the bureau investigated Attorney General Jeff Sessions for possible perjury last year, after he inaccurately said that he had no contacts with Russians during the presidential campaign, according to three people familiar with the case.Andrew McCabe, the F.B.I.’s deputy director at the time, was said to have authorized the inquiry. Mr. McCabe was recently fired — by Mr. Sessions — for showing “lack of candor” in an internal investigation.• Separately, John Brennan, a former C.I.A. director and a pointed critic of President Trump, said that he thought Russia may have compromising information on the president. He later said that his opinion wasn’t based on inside knowledge.• Can the Federal Reserve engineer the best economy since the 1960s? Its new chairman, Jerome Powell, is going to try.The central bank raised interest rates on Wednesday and said it expected to do so twice more this year.• Time magazine, Sports Illustrated, Fortune and Money  are up for sale.• The April 17 deadline for filing taxes  is fast approaching, and many virtual currency traders are sweating over their returns.• U.S. stocks were down on Wednesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Here’s how to protect your  Facebook data.• Thinking of going to Brazil? You’ll need this vaccination.• Recipe of the day: Brighten up the usual salmon dinner with a sauce of capers, scallions, parsley and garlic.Our journalists recommend these great pieces:“Each year, NPR scours the SXSW Music Festival to find the best up-and-coming acts. (Spotters were early fans of Adele and Kendrick Lamar, among others). Here’s the latest 100-song playlist.“The Times’s chief pop music critic was also there and shared 17 acts that stood out.” — Jennifer Jett, senior staff editor“You may have paid for a DNA test to learn about your genetic origins. Why not do that for your dog? With good humor, Kelly Conaboy walks you through her testing of her rescue dog, Peter. There’s a reveal at the end.” [The Outline] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• Where do birds flock together? Australians are mailing feathers to help find out.A scientist asked people to send her fallen feathers, like the ones shown below, so that she could map bird movements as the country’s wetlands disappear.•  In praise of GrandmaWhen we introduced the Overlooked project two weeks ago, we asked readers to suggest people they felt deserved, but didn’t get, obituaries in The Times.We’ve received close to 2,500 submissions. About 30 were from readers who told us about their grandmothers or great-grandmothers, who often fought strong institutional prejudice. Here are their stories.• The Boss remains on BroadwayBruce Springsteen’s sold-out show, “Springsteen on Broadway,” has been extended until December.The average ticket price last week was a whopping $507.60. (By comparison, the average price for “The Lion King” was $149.27.)• Best of late-night TVTrevor Noah had sympathy for Mark Zuckerberg: “Things are so bad for him right now that Facebook is showing him ads for Xanax.”• Quotation of the day“I haven’t seen all the shows, because I’m making them.”— Sister Jean Dolores Schmidt, the 98-year-old chaplain for Loyola University Chicago’s men’s basketball team, on being an in-demand guest on national talk shows as her flock enters the round of 16 at the N.C.A.A. tournament.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.On this day in 1972, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Eisenstadt v. Baird that it’s unconstitutional for a state to deny unmarried people access to contraception.The court had ruled earlier, in 1965, that state bans on contraceptives for married couples violated their privacy rights. But a few states still restricted access for single people.Bill Baird, an activist, violated one such law in Massachusetts. He appealed his conviction to the Supreme Court, which struck down the law.Justice William Brennan held that the law violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment because it discriminated between married and unmarried people.The case became an important precedent for landmark rulings by the Supreme Court, including the 1973 decision in Roe v. Wade that recognized abortion rights, and, more recently, the 2015 decision guaranteeing a right to same-sex marriage.A movie about Mr. Baird’s case is in development.Mr. Baird has continued working as an activist, but his legacy is complicated by what The Times described in 1993 as an “unapologetic zealotry” and a willingness to criticize “even his ideologic allies.” Planned Parenthood once called him an “embarrassment.”Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
SAN FRANCISCO — For the past week, Mark Zuckerberg has grappled with a backlash from lawmakers, regulators and users over Facebook’s mishandling of data privacy. He has also had to face another restive group: his own employees.The Facebook chief executive has taken multiple steps over the past few days to communicate with the social network’s 25,000 employees over revelations last week that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, had improperly obtained data of 50 million Facebook users.The Silicon Valley company held a staff meeting on Tuesday to answer questions about Cambridge Analytica, featuring one of Facebook’s lawyers, Paul Grewal. On Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Zuckerberg addressed employees directly, according to two Facebook employees who asked not be identified because the proceedings were confidential. Mr. Zuckerberg also spoke with staff on Friday at a regularly scheduled employee meeting, said two people who attended the event.Facebook declined to comment on the meetings.Speaking to Facebook’s employees was a crucial prong of what has become an apology tour of sorts for Mr. Zuckerberg over the Cambridge Analytica fallout. The revelations have raised calls for Mr. Zuckerberg to appear before Congress to explain himself, as well as a #DeleteFacebook movement and other criticism.Mr. Zuckerberg had stayed silent on the matter for days, until he released a statement on Wednesday vowing that Facebook had to do better and gave several interviews to quell the crisis. That has not stopped pressure from Congress, with bipartisan leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee saying on Friday that they had sent a formal request for Mr. Zuckerberg to appear in a hearing over Facebook’s “harvesting and sale of personal information” related to Cambridge Analytica.Calming employees was particularly vital because morale had sunk at the company, Facebook employees have said, especially after months of scrutiny over how the social network was used by Russian agents to influence the 2016 presidential election. Keeping workers engaged is crucial in Silicon Valley’s highly competitive job market, where recruiting and retaining talent often is difficult against deep-pocketed rivals.Earlier this week, some Facebook employees had said that colleagues had started looking to transfer from the main social network product to other branches of the company, such as to messaging app WhatsApp and photo-sharing site Instagram, which have been relatively unscathed by the recent scandals.One Facebook recruiter, who declined to be identified because of a nondisclosure agreement, said there were concerns that top talent might choose other Silicon Valley companies over Facebook.“It’s such a shocking difference for company employees who are used to having esteem for where they work,” said Eric Schiffer, chairman of Reputation Management Consultants, a consulting firm, and who has been speaking with people at Facebook. “Ten years ago, Facebook was the hottest place to go out of college. This year, the best graduates are not necessarily looking at Facebook.”When Mr. Zuckerberg did not appear at the Tuesday staff meeting hosted by the company lawyer, Mr. Grewal, his absence made headlines.When he spoke to workers on Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg focused on concrete measures that Facebook was taking following the Cambridge Analytica reports, two employees said. Staff members asked questions about how Mr. Zuckerberg planned to regain user trust, especially in light of the #DeleteFacebook campaign from users, the two employees said.Mr. Zuckerberg said the social network was investigating apps like the third-party quiz app that had obtained access to “large amounts of information” from the social network, which had then been used by Cambridge Analytica. He also said the company would restrict third-party developers’ access and would notify users whose data had been harvested by Cambridge Analytica.Of the #DeleteFacebook campaign, Mr. Zuckerberg told The New York Times in an interview, “I think it’s a clear signal that this is a major trust issue for people, and I understand that.”Three Facebook employees said morale had improved following the interviews and the internal communications that Mr. Zuckerberg did on Wednesday. One of them said he had avoided a trip home to see his family last weekend because he did not want to answer questions about the company he worked for.On Friday, Facebook’s senior managers promised an open line of communication as the company continued to re-evaluate its privacy and security measures, said two employees.There was a feeling, said one of the people, that Facebook wanted to take aggressive steps to make sure it could regain user trust. And over all, he said, confidence was up.
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Facebook has had a particularly bad few days, even for a Silicon Valley giant that has been under fire for months. The social network, which was once Silicon Valley’s pride and joy, is now facing a new scandal over data privacy — and the fallout has been intense and keeps widening.Let’s recap how it all unfolded:Over the weekend, The New York Times, along with The Observer of London and The Guardian, broke the news that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly obtained data on 50 million Facebook users and used it to target messages to potential American voters.The revelations set off an immediate hue and cry. American and British lawmakers demanded that Facebook explain how the data had been harvested without people being alerted. Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota, pressed Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, to appear before lawmakers in person. Others have since piled on.On Monday, The Times reported that Facebook’s executive in charge of information security, Alex Stamos, was planning to leave the social network by August. The move reflected heightened internal tensions at the top of the company, showing how the scrutiny has taken a toll.Criticism of Facebook intensified on Tuesday. Wall Street investors sold off the company’s shares, with a nearly 7 percent drop on Monday and a 2.5 percent fall on Tuesday. To top it off, the Federal Trade Commission opened an investigation into whether Facebook violated an agreement on data privacy, sparked by the Cambridge Analytica reports.Where have Mr. Zuckerberg and other Facebook leaders been in all of this, you may ask? Good question. The top brass at the company’s headquarters in Menlo Park have been silent for days.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• A powerful storm is barreling toward Southern California, prompting the third round of evacuation orders in Santa Barbara County this month. More than 30,000 have been told to evacuate. [The Los Angeles Times]• The U.S. Supreme Court, during oral arguments, signaled its hostility to a law requiring so-called crisis pregnancy centers in California to provide information about abortion services. [The New York Times]• California’s housing problems are spilling across its borders, to cities like Reno, Nev., and others. [The New York Times]• The Sacramento Police Department clarified that a black man who was shot 20 times and killed by officers was not carrying “a toolbar,” but instead a cellphone. [The Sacramento Bee]• The Los Angeles Police Department will now be required to release videos captured by body cameras and patrol cars, following a policy shift by the Police Commission. [The Los Angeles Times]• The movement to #DeleteFacebook has gained steam in recent days. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Orange County may add homeless camps in three cities, part of newly approved spending totaling $90 million, which will appropriated to fight the homeless problem. [The Orange County Register]• Ten years ago, Gavin Newsom, as mayor of San Francisco, ordered that undocumented minors arrested for felonies be reported to Immigration and Customs Enforcements. [Bay Area News Group]• San Francisco’s board of supervisors voted Tuesday to ban the sale of fur within the city. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Dispatch: Visitors flock to the San Bernardino National Forest and two California state parks, armed with cameras and spotting scopes, to see bald eagles. [The New York Times]• The Roxie Theater in San Francisco held a preview of Wes Anderson’s new film, “Isle of Dogs.” The screening was B.Y.O.D.: bring your own dog. [The New York Times]The rain storms hitting California this week have been called many things, but two related terms keep popping up to describe this weather system: “atmospheric river” and “Pineapple Express.”So which one is it?“Pineapple Express was a term for many years used to identify storms that came from Hawaii and hit the West Coast,” said Marty Ralph, a research meteorologist affiliated with U.C. San Diego’s Scripps Institution of Oceanography. “About 15 years ago we recognized that there’s a broader definition called an atmospheric river, and those happen all over the planet.”For non-scientists, atmospheric rivers can be conceptualized visually.“If you look from space from a satellite, it does look like a sinuous river,” said Daniel Swain, a climate scientist at U.C.L.A. “It’s a colorful term, and it’s actually the official meteorological term to describe this process.”But while all Pineapple Express storms are atmospheric rivers, not all atmospheric rivers are classified as Pineapple Express storms.The source for the particular atmospheric river hitting California this week is near the Hawaiian Islands, hence the playful “Pineapple Express.” Not everyone agrees, though, that this storm falls under that category.“I wouldn’t call this one a Pineapple Express. The storm is coming from the West, but the tail of this atmospheric river didn’t come from Hawaii, it came from east of Hawaii,” Mr. Ralph said. “But I’m not sure about arguing the jargon too much on this. The modern term is atmospheric river.”Nomenclature aside, Mr. Swain urged residents in burn areas not to ignore the orders because of storm fatigue. Though the storm may not hit Los Angeles too hard, it could wallop those in Santa Barbara County. The forecast is severe, and if water falls too quickly it could lead to substantial flooding and mudslides.“The forecast is for a really, really big rain,” he said. “Maybe half a foot or more of water is going to fall in a lot of places that have had intense fire activity. Whether all those inches of rain fall over three days or in a six hours is hard to predict.”California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Trevor Noah on Wednesday excoriated Facebook for failing to keep millions of users’ data secure. He poked fun at Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, whose net worth has plummeted because of the scandal.Noah pointed out that Facebook had not informed its users when it discovered a major breach of their privacy. “They need to be held accountable,” Noah said. Then he urged viewers to remember that many sites closely monitor users’ activity.“At the same time, though, it’s our responsibility to be vigilant,” he said. “In the year 2018, you have to assume everything you click online, everything you watch, every website you visit will be collecting data on you — and that data will be used eventually to try to sell you something.”Seth Meyers on Wednesday revisited President Trump’s recent call with Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin. During the call, Trump congratulated Putin for his win in Sunday’s election — something Trump’s staff had instructed him specifically not to do.Jimmy Kimmel pointed to reports that Trump is irate because details about the call to Putin were leaked to the news media.Samantha Bee marked the 15th anniversary of the American invasion of Iraq by looking at how our political discourse has changed in the years since.Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the Supreme Court doesn’t want to wrestle with Stephen Colbert.On Thursday, “The Tonight Show” welcomes the actor Will Smith and Fran Lebowitz, the comic author and famed New Yorker.Our graphics team gives you David Bowie’s costumes — in three dimensions.
NEW YORK —  Facebook revealed Wednesday that tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought and said it will restrict the user data that outsiders can access.Those developments came as congressional officials said CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify next week, while Facebook unveiled a new privacy policy that aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly — but doesn't actually change what it collects and shares.In a call with reporters Wednesday, Zuckerberg acknowledged he made a "huge mistake" in failing to take a broad enough view of what Facebook's responsibility is in the world. He said it isn't enough for Facebook to believe app developers when they say they follow the rules. He says Facebook has to ensure they do.Facebook is facing its worst privacy scandal in years following allegations that Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-affiliated data mining firm, used ill-gotten data from millions of users through an app to try to influence elections.Facebook said Wednesday that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed — an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports. Facebook is basing the estimate in part on the number of friends each user might have had. Cambridge Analytica said in a statement that it had data for only 30 million people.On Monday all Facebook users will receive a notice on their Facebook feeds with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. They'll have a chance to delete apps they no longer want. Users who might have had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will be told of that. Facebook says most of the affected users are in the U.S.Zuckerberg said fixing the company's problems will take years.Besides the privacy scandal, Facebook also has been dealing with fake news, the use of Facebook to spread hate and discord and concerns about social media's effect on people's mental well-being.These are "big issues" and a big shift for Facebook as it broadens its responsibility, Zuckerberg said. He added that he does think that by the end of this year the company will have "turned a corner" on a lot of the issues. Zuckerberg has made fixing the company his personal challenge for 2018.As part of the steps it's taking to address scrutiny about outsiders' access to user data, Facebook outlined several changes to further tighten its policies. For one, it is restricting access that apps can have to data about users' events, as well as information about groups such as member lists and content.In addition, the company is also removing the option to search for users by entering a phone number or an email address. While this helped individuals find friends, Facebook says businesses that had phone or email information on customers were able to collect profile information this way. Facebook says it believes most of its 2.2 billion users had their public profile information scraped by businesses or various malicious actors through this technique at some point. Posts and other content set to be visible only to friends weren't collected.This comes on top of changes announced a few weeks ago. For example, Facebook has said it will remove developers' access to people's data if the person has not used the app in three months.Earlier Wednesday, Facebook unveiled a new privacy policy that seeks to clarify its data collection and use.Although Facebook says the policy changes aren't prompted by recent events or tighter privacy rules coming from the EU, it's an opportune time. Zuckerberg is set to testify April 10 before a joint hearing of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees, and a day later before the House Energy and Commerce Committee . The two sessions will be his first testimony before Congress. Separately, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various authorities in Europe are investigating.As Facebook evolved from a closed, Harvard-only network with no ads to a giant corporation with $40 billion in advertising revenue and huge subsidiaries like Instagram and WhatsApp, its privacy policy has also shifted — over and over.Almost always, critics say, the changes meant a move away from protecting user privacy toward pushing openness and more sharing. On the other hand, regulatory and user pressure has sometimes led Facebook to pull back on its data collection and use and to explain things in plainer language — in contrast to dense legalese from many other internet companies.The policy changes come a week after Facebook gave its privacy settings a makeover. The company tried to make it easier to navigate its complex and often confusing privacy and security settings, though the makeover didn't change what Facebook collects and shares either.Facebook's new privacy policy has a new section explaining that it collects people's contact information if they choose to "upload, sync or import" this to the service. This may include users' address books on their phones, as well as their call logs and text histories. The new policy says Facebook may use this data to help "you and others find people you may know."Several users were surprised to learn recently that Facebook had been collecting information about whom they texted or called and for how long, though not the actual contents of text messages. It seemed to have been done without explicit consent, though Facebook says it collected such data only from Android users who specifically allowed it to do so — for instance, by agreeing to permissions when installing Facebook.On Wednesday, Facebook said will delete all logs after a year and in the future, the only information this tool will collect from now on is the data that it needs to operate and "not broader data such as the time of calls."The new policy also makes it clear that WhatsApp and Instagram are part of Facebook and that the companies share information about users. WhatsApp will still have a separate policy as well, while Facebook and Instagram share one.___This story has been corrected to reflect that WhatsApp has its own privacy policy, while Facebook and Instagram share the same one.
Debates over privacy have plagued Facebook for years.But the news that  Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm that worked on President Trump’s 2016 campaign, was able to gain access to private data through the social network has sparked an unusually strong reaction among its users.The hashtag #DeleteFacebook appeared more than 10,000 times on Twitter within a two-hour period on Wednesday, according to the analytics service ExportTweet. On Tuesday, it was mentioned 40,398 times, according to the analytics service Digimind.Cher was one such deserter, writing on Twitter that the decision to quit Facebook, although “very hard,” was necessary because she loves the United States.Brian Acton, a co-founder of the WhatsApp messaging service, told his tens of thousands of followers on Tuesday to delete Facebook. The social network acquired WhatsApp in a $19 billion deal in 2014.For people who aren’t celebrities or billionaires, the decision to abandon Facebook came reluctantly, because the platform often served as their sole connection to certain relatives, friends and professional opportunities.Here, some newly Facebook-free users of social media discuss why they left.______Richard H. PerryA filmmaker in Los AngelesFor a long time now, Mr. Perry had wanted to leave Facebook.He never felt comfortable knowing that the company had access to much of his personal information. In the months before the 2016 presidential election, he watched the social network become what he called “a garbage platform of ads and weird reposted articles and people that you care about exposing themselves as racists.”But Facebook was also where Mr. Perry promoted his films, where he posted ads seeking help on the set, and where he communicated with colleagues and a “massive number” of his friends and relatives.Until he heard about Cambridge Analytica.“I suspected this stuff was going on, but this is the first time it’s been plainly exposed,” he said. “It seems so malicious, and Facebook seems so complicit all the way up and down, like it doesn’t care about its users.”Mr. Perry, 39, has since deleted his profile and plans to switch to Twitter and Instagram for his social media needs.“It was an easy decision,” he said. “It’s not going to be the end of the world.”______Dan ClarkA retired Navy veteran in MaineMr. Clark kept one Facebook account to chat with friends and a separate account to keep tabs on members of his family nationwide. This week, he deleted both.“Facebook was the main platform I used to keep in touch with all of them, and it was a difficult decision to give it up,” he said. “But you have to stand for something, so I just put my foot down and said enough is enough.”Mr. Clark, 57, said he had already been angry with Facebook for censoring some of his posts, which he said expressed his staunchly conservative views but were “never evil or putting anybody down.” He could not abide the idea that his personal information was also being sold or given away without his consent.Before cutting the cord, Mr. Clark posted on Facebook inviting his contacts to ask him for his personal phone number. More than 100 people reached out within three days.“There are just so many ways nowadays to stay in contact: phones, email, instant message, Gab, which is a social network that doesn’t censor anything,” he said. “Facebook is more obsolete than people would think.”______Alexandra KleemanA writer on Staten IslandHer first experience with fake news — a Facebook post claiming that Pope Francis had endorsed Mr. Trump’s candidacy — altered the way Ms. Kleeman looked at Facebook.“It changed the psychological and emotional feel of the platform for me,” she said. “I don’t have a great feeling when I log in.”The Cambridge Analytica scandal led her to remove the Facebook app from her phone. “I’m not going to give them my engagement clicks,” Ms. Kleeman, 32, said. But she is keeping the messaging function open for professional purposes and will continue using Instagram.She doesn’t mind the idea that some personal data can be made public — she used to have a blog, she said.“But the idea that my data could be used for purposes that I expressly don’t want, that freaks me out.”______Paul MusgraveAn assistant professor in Amherst, Mass.Twitter makes Mr. Musgrave feel depressed about the world, but Facebook is the social media platform he is trying to abandon.As a political science teacher at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, Mr. Musgrave, 36, feels a professional responsibility to keep abreast of the news and academic chatter hurtling at him in the form of tweets.Facebook was more valuable to him as a “low-key, offstage networking tool,” a “replacement for end-of-year family newsletters” that allowed him to “passively keep up with people,” he said. He joined the platform more than a decade ago and before that had been a member of Friendster, a precursor to Facebook.But in 2016, while helping his mother during her campaign for a government position in Indiana, Mr. Musgrave discovered a “poisonous swamp” of content on the site. The Cambridge Analytica findings were even more disturbing, he said."This is a company that has Orwellian levels of data about us, truly Big Brother-level, but it’s behaving as if it has no social responsibility and is a purely neutral medium of communication,” he said. "That’s what’s really been scary.”Having deactivated his Facebook account, with plans to delete it, he now worries about connecting with people who use the social network as their main conduit of communication.“I’m definitely pruning myself away from some of those really important branches,” he said. “I watch my own students try to navigate the world of apps and smartphones, and even they don’t really know how the internet works outside these enclosed garden spaces.”______Ben GreenzweigAn entrepreneur in Westchester, N.Y.Once Mr. Greenzweig confirms that the 1,195 photos and 85 videos in his Facebook profile have downloaded, he plans to delete the account he has maintained for nearly a decade.Mr. Greenzweig, 40, said the Cambridge Analytica news was “the last straw.”“We have surpassed the tipping point, where the benefit now fails to outweigh the cost,” he said. “But I will definitely miss what the promise of Facebook used to be — a way to connect to community in a very global and local context.”A year ago, Mr. Greenzweig was an “extraordinarily active” Facebook user who juggled conversations with friends, managed several groups, took out ads for his business and maintained professional contacts.But on Tuesday night, in his final post, he asked his network to connect with him through email, LinkedIn, Twitter or phone.“See everyone in the real world,” he wrote.
WASHINGTON —  Investigators on two congressional panels are looking into whether Russia acquired the data of millions of Facebook users and if companies with ties to then-2016 Republican election candidate Donald Trump's campaign played any role in providing it, three sources familiar with the inquiries said.On Tuesday, Facebook said it had deleted 70 Facebook accounts, 138 Facebook pages and 65 Instagram accounts that it said were "controlled" by the Internet Research Agency (IRA), a Russian propaganda arm based in St. Petersburg.Last September, Facebook disclosed that it had suspended about 470 "inauthentic accounts" that it believed were "likely operated out of Russia" and had purchased 3,000 ads which "appeared to focus on amplifying divisive social and political messages."And on Wednesday, the social media platform said the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more than 50 million. Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will testify on April 10 and 11 to Congress.In an indictment in February, Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating possible Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign, charged IRA and 13 Russians with conspiring to interfere in U.S. politics and elections. Moscow denies tampering in U.S. elections and President Trump denies any coordination between his campaign and Russian officials.Among the issues investigators on the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee and Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee are digging into are whether IRA and other Russian organizations used any Facebook data, the sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Also, whether the use of such data had any impact on the U.S. election, and how much Facebook data may have been acquired by Russian entities, the sources said.Zuckerberg last month disclosed that in 2013, Cambridge University academic Aleksandr Kogan, who ran a company called Global Science Research (GSR), created a personality quiz app that was installed by about 300,000 Facebook users.Zuckerberg said that because of the way the Facebook platform worked at the time, this gave Kogan access to data of "tens of millions" of friends of users who took the quiz.On Wednesday, Mike Schroepfer, Facebook's Chief Technology Officer, acknowledged in a public posting that "the Facebook information of up to 87 million people - mostly in the US - may have been improperly shared" with Cambridge Analytica.Zuckerberg said Facebook learned in 2015 that Kogan shared data from his app with Cambridge Analytica. The London-based consulting firm received millions of dollars from the Trump campaign and a political action committee supported by financier Robert Mercer, who supported Trump. Zuckerberg said Kogan "misused" Facebook's data.Cambridge Analytica said in a statement on Wednesday that it "did not use any" data it acquired from Kogan's company in work related to the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign. The firm added that it took legal action against GSR, and that it "immediately deleted the raw data" from its server when it learned from Facebook that the data had been "improperly obtained."Representative Adam Schiff, the House intelligence committee's top Democrat, sent Kogan a letter requesting correspondence and message traffic on his dealings with Cambridge Analytica and former Trump adviser Steve Bannon, any material related to Russia, and that Kogan agree to an interview.Kogan said in an email to Reuters that he knows nothing about Facebook data being obtained by Russia and had never heard of the Internet Research Agency "until a few weeks ago."(Reporting By Mark Hosenball; editing by John Walcott and Grant McCool)
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.President Trump’s tariff salvo, fewer weapons inside Ukraine’s Parliament and a pile of ocean garbage larger than France. Here’s what you need to know:• The Trump administration said it would exempt the European Union and other allies from stiff steel and aluminum tariffs that go into effect today, but in a twist, the administration may impose import quotas to prevent too much foreign metal from flooding into the United States.The move came as President Trump announced plans to impose about $60 billion worth of annual tariffs on Chinese imports, in punishment for what the White House says is China’s pattern of co-opting American tech and trade secrets.China hit back Friday morning, proposing reciprocal tariffs on $3 billion of American-made imports, and said that it would also pursue legal action against the U.S. at the World Trade Organization.Separately, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, H. R. McMaster, will be replaced by John R. Bolton, a hard-line former U.S. ambassador who supported Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U._____• “This is a message for Monsieur Macron.”Travel was upended, schools were closed and tens of thousands of people took to the streets across France on Thursday as railway workers, teachers, students and air traffic controllers went on strike to protest President Emmanuel Macron’s economic and social reforms.But the anger on the streets has found little expression in France’s legislature, where Mr. Macron has been given free rein to ram through major legislation._____• “The most important thing is that we fix this system.”Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, gave an unexpected interview to two of our reporters about the Cambridge Analytica scandal.Not everyone was impressed by Mr. Zuckerberg’s statements, days after we broke the story that data from over 50 million profiles had been secretly scraped. “He avoided the big issue,” an analyst said, “which is that for many years, Facebook was basically giving away user data like it was handing out candy.”On “The Daily” podcast, one of the reporters who interviewed Mr. Zuckerberg described how it went. (Facebook’s outreach was so sudden, they had to ask him to hold the line while they read his just-posted public statement.)_____• In Slovakia, the largest protests in three decades successfully pressured the prime minister and others to resign, but no elections were called and the ruling party remains in control. Above, the new Slovak prime minister, Peter Pellegrini, left, with President Andrej Kiska.After a new government was announced yesterday, many of those who had railed against the corruption of top officials feared that the new boss was not much different from the old boss._____• The Turkish government arranged a rare visit for The New York Times to a city in northern Syria under its control.Turkish officials see the town of Jarabulus as a blueprint for Afrin, which Turkish forces and their Syrian allies captured last weekend. There are functioning schools and a hospital (above, displaying the image of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan). And the Turkish presence has deterred the Syrian government from bombing the area.The victory in Afrin has emboldened Mr. Erdogan, who has vowed to continue his military campaign across northern Syria._____• European Union leaders meeting in Brussels raised doubts over the European Commission's proposals to increase taxes on digital businesses, underlining challenges proponents face as they seek to stem tax avoidance by tech companies. (Above, the European Commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker.)•  Britain’s new post-Brexit passports, hailed by Prime Minister Theresa May as “an expression of independence,” will be made in France.• Citigroup is setting restrictions on the sale of firearms by business customers, making it the first Wall Street bank to take a stance in the divisive U.S. gun control debate.• U.S. markets plunged on fears of a trade war. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• The great Pacific garbage patch contains at least 79,000 tons of material spread over 1.6 million square kilometers of ocean, according to a new study. That’s about three times the size of France, and as much as 16 times larger than past estimates. [The New York Times]• Now banned in Ukraine’s Parliament: guns and grenades. [The New York Times]• “Breakthrough.” Since Iraq’s Kurdish region voted for independence last fall, relations with Baghdad have been strained. A new agreement signals warmer ties. [The New York Times]• A Syrian refugee set himself on fire at a migrant camp in Greece, in one of the most serious recent incidents involving stranded migrants. [Reuters]• Russia’s “Youth Army,” a recent Kremlin creation, is designed to imprint nationalist fervor, but critics doubt that young Russians need a militaristic league. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: End the week with the perfect snack, chips and creamy queso.• Bake perfect chocolate chip cookies with this recipe, inspired by the woman who invented them.• Considering a “green” funeral? Here’s what you need to know.• Encourage great hotel service by following these tips.• A tiny mummy discovered in Chile looks like an alien. Scientists have now deciphered its strange origin.• Why would a 70-year-old kayak across the Atlantic Ocean (for the third time)? “To feel alive,” said the man who did it.• In praise of Grandma. As the Overlooked project started, we asked readers to suggest women they felt deserved, but didn’t get, obituaries in The Times. Here are the stories you told us about your grandmothers and great-grandmothers.It’s a shortcut used the world over — and even beyond, having been uttered at least once during a space mission.On this day in 1839, The Boston Morning Post published “O.K.” for the first known time, using the abbreviation next to the words “all correct.” (It’s not written “okay,” The Times stylebook says.)There have been many theories about its origin, but the most likely is that O.K. was an abbreviation for the deliberately misspelled “orl korrect” (all correct), and the expression gained prominence in the mid-19th century.Allen Walker Read, a longtime English professor at Columbia University, debunked some theories in the 1960s, including that the term had come from Andrew Jackson’s poor spelling, a Native American word or an Army biscuit.Today, O.K. is “an Americanism adopted by virtually every language, and one of the first words spoken on the moon,” the Times obituary of Mr. Read noted in 2002.The professor didn’t “appreciate having ‘O.K.’ overshadow the hundreds of other etymologies he divined,” it continued. He also tracked early uses of Dixie, Podunk and the “almighty dollar.”In the 1920s, Mr. Read hitchhiked through western Iowa hunting down the word “blizzard.”“A man called Lightnin’ Ellis had first used the word for a snowstorm in 1870,” he learned. “Within 10 years, it had spread throughout the Midwest.”Charles McDermid contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Australia dodges U.S. tariffs, prominent septuagenarians trade schoolyard taunts, and the great Pacific garbage patch may now be the size of Mongolia. Here’s what you need to know: • Australia and South Korea made the list of American allies that will be spared, for now, from steep U.S. tariffs on aluminum and steel that go into effect today. Above, a steel mill in Wollongong, south of Sydney.The U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, also said Argentina, Brazil and the European Union would join Canada and Mexico as exempt, at least temporarily.Those countries accounted for more than half of the total volume of steel sold to the U.S. in 2017, so the exemptions could undercut the tariffs’ impact on domestic steel mills._____• Banishing any possible doubt about the focus of his sweeping tariffs, President Trump announced plans to impose about $60 billion worth of annual tariffs on Chinese imports and to exact other penalties from an “economic enemy.”Some 1,300 lines of goods to be affected are to be named within 15 days.Mr. Lighthizer, the trade representative, said he was pushing to target products from the advanced industries in Beijing’s “Made in China 2025” plan, including electric vehicles, high-tech shipping and aerospace technology.Our Beijing correspondent looks at the challenges China’s president, Xi Jinping, must now confront.President Trump’s national security adviser is out. H. R. McMaster, will be replaced by John R. Bolton, a hard-line former U.S. ambassador._____• Before the massacre. Using exclusively obtained surveillance footage, we pieced together the last days of Stephen Paddock, the gunman who rained lethal fire on a music festival in Las Vegas last October, killing scores.He plays video poker, laughs with hotel staff — and hauls bag after bag of weapons into his suite._____• “The most important thing is that we fix this system.” Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, gave an unexpected interview to two of our reporters about the Cambridge Analytica scandal.Not everyone was impressed by Mr. Zuckerberg’s statements, days after we broke the story that data from over 50 million profiles had been secretly scraped. “He avoided the big issue,” an analyst said, “which is that for many years, Facebook was basically giving away user data like it was handing out candy.”On “The Daily” podcast, one of the reporters who interviewed Mr. Zuckerberg described how it went. (Facebook’s outreach was so sudden, they had to ask him to hold the line while they read his just-posted public statement.)_____• Septuagenarian schoolyard taunts.Joe Biden started it. T he former vice president — who may be considering a 2020 challenge for the presidency — said that if he were younger (he’s 75), he would “beat the hell” out of President Trump for disrespecting women.Mr. Trump, 71, countered that Mr. Biden “would go down fast and hard” if the two brawled.Separately, Mr. Trump’s lead lawyer for the special counsel investigation resigned after concluding that his advice was being ignored._____• The Australia newsletter.This week’s edition asks: Where is integration working in the country, and where is it failing? (A big inspiration for the piece was an Uber driver who turned out to hold a Ph.D. in literature.)And many of you connected with the reflection on Nippers in our last newsletter. Here are some of your responses on why you love — or hate — the lifesaving surf program for kids.• “Make happy those who are near and those who are far will come”: Peggy and Andrew Cherng spent 45 years building Panda Express into a restaurant empire with more than $3 billion in sales last year.• Tencent Holdings, Asia’s most valuable company, lost more than $26 billion of market capitalization after it warned that it would be reducing spending on content and technology to pursue sustained growth.• Citigroup is setting restrictions on the sale of firearms by business customers, making it the first Wall Street bank to take a stance in the divisive U.S. gun control debate. • Time magazine, Sports Illustrated, Fortune and Money are up for sale.• U.S. stocks were weaker. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• The great Pacific garbage patch contains at least 79,000 tons of material spread over 1.6 million square kilometers, according to a new study. That’s about the size of Mongolia or Iran, and as much as 16 times larger than past estimates. [Science News]• The Queensland police confirmed that two Americans died in a helicopter crash off the Great Barrier Reef on Wednesday. [The New York Times]• A Perth department store  was accused of racial profiling after staff members called security on an Indigenous teenager shopping with his father. [ABC]• “Dead to me.” The immigration minister Peter Dutton denounced the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and The Guardian after they criticized his plan to fast-track visas for white South African farmers. [The Guardian]• The ashes of Stephen Hawking, the renowned cosmologist, will be interred next to the grave of Sir Isaac Newton at Westminster Abbey. [The New York Times]• Honey Popcorn, a K-pop group made up of Japanese adult video actresses, released its debut mini-album, “Bibidi Babidi Boo.” (Watch the video.) The backlash in South Korea has been intense. [Yonhap]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Recipe of the day: End the week with the perfect snack: chips and creamy queso.• Considering a “green” funeral? Here’s what you need to know.• Encourage great hotel service by following these tips.• The Juneau, a long-lost Navy cruiser blasted apart by a Japanese torpedo in World War II, was discovered off the coast of the Solomon Islands by a team funded by the Microsoft co-founder and philanthropist Paul Allen. Among the hundreds of dead were five brothers from one Iowa family.• In praise of Grandma. As the Overlooked project started, we asked readers to suggest women they felt deserved, but didn’t get, obituaries in The Times. Here are the stories you told us about your grandmothers and great-grandmothers.• And a team of scientists spend time in the streets of Tokyo and the shark-filled waters of Asia in “The Rising Sea,” a thriller by Clive Cussler and Graham Brown that’s No. 1 on our hardcover fiction and combined print and e-book fiction lists.It’s a shortcut used the world over — and even beyond, having been uttered at least once during a space mission.On this day in 1839, The Boston Morning Post published “O.K.” for the first known time, using the abbreviation next to the words “all correct.” (It’s not written “okay,” The Times stylebook says.)There have been many theories about its origin, but the most likely is that O.K. was  an abbreviation for the deliberately misspelled “orl korrect” (all correct), and the expression gained prominence in the mid-19th century.Allen Walker Read, a longtime English professor at Columbia University, debunked some theories in the 1960s, including that the term had come from Andrew Jackson’s poor spelling, a Native American word or an Army biscuit.Today, O.K. is “an Americanism adopted by virtually every language, and one of the first words spoken on the moon,” the Times obituary of Mr. Read noted in 2002.The professor didn’t “appreciate having ‘O.K.’ overshadow the hundreds of other etymologies he divined,” it continued. He also tracked early uses of Dixie, Podunk and the “almighty dollar.”In the 1920s, Mr. Read hitchhiked through western Iowa hunting down the word blizzard.“A man called Lightnin’ Ellis had first used the word for a snowstorm in 1870,” he learned. “Within 10 years, it had spread throughout the Midwest.”_____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Data harvesting on Facebook, a Brexit transition deal and a self-driving Uber’s first fatal accident. Here’s the latest:• Alexander Nix, above, the chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, the data firm hired by the Trump campaign that harvested information from more than 50 million Facebook profiles, was secretly filmed by a reporter as he offered to entrap foreign politicians with women.Britain’s information commissioner is seeking a warrant to review the firm’s data, which was collected through a third-party app on Facebook.The technical openness to engagement that helped make Facebook a juggernaut has become a privacy nightmare, our columnist writes. Here’s how you can protect your information.Facebook’s share price plummeted, and a key executive who had urged more disclosure is planning to leave._____ • British and E.U. negotiators  agreed on the terms of a 21-month Brexit transition.London conceded that E.U. citizens who arrived in Britain during the transition period would have the same rights as those already in the country.But the deal still depends on a broader agreement that is far from certain._____ • A self-driving Uber car struck a woman, causing the first known pedestrian fatality from a driverless vehicle on a public road.While autonomous cars are expected to ultimately be safer, they face a challenge in trying to adjust for unpredictable behavior. In this case, the woman was crossing the street outside of a crosswalk.(Here is a brief guide to the way these cars operate.)_____ • Syrian propaganda videos showed President Bashar al-Assad driving a Honda from Damascus to eastern Ghouta, the suburb that has been under siege for almost five years.In bypassing the news media, Mr. Assad delivered an alternative view of the war, one in which he is assured and in charge.Separately, a young English woman’s idealism took her to Syria, and to her death. Anna Campbell, 26, died defending the Kurdish-led region of Rojava, whose leaders advocate equal rights for women._____• President Trump unveiled an opioid plan that includes a push for the death penalty for dealers but was vague on details.Separately, he is said to be considering reshuffling his legal team to more aggressively take on the special counsel’s Russia inquiry.At least online, intelligence agency and law enforcement targets of President Trump’s insult-laden attacks are starting to strike back, sometimes in unusually harsh terms.• Picture a leader. Most people will draw a man, not a woman. Researchers are investigating the reasons there’s such a gender gap in the recognition of leadership potential.• A European plan to tax digital companies on where they generate revenue could hit Silicon Valley giants hard.• With cheap flights becoming increasingly popular, Air France wants to let travelers know that flying doesn’t have to be a bare-bones experience.•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Meet Luigi Di Maio, a 31-year-old college dropout, who may be in line to become Italy’s next prime minister. [The New York Times]• A junior U.S. officer, not top military officials, approved the botched combat mission in Niger last fall that left American and Nigerien forces dead, an unreleased Pentagon report says. [The New York Times]• Armed conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo has left 13 million people in a humanitarian crisis, double the number over the last year. [Reuters]• Israel accused a 24-year-old French consular worker of smuggling guns into the West Bank from Gaza for financial gain. [The New York Times]• Four bombings this month in Austin, Tex., have killed two people and injured four and put the state capital on high alert. [The New York Times]• In Spain, a dispute over whether to exhume the body of Gonzalo Queipo de Llano, the civil war military commander, reflects divisions that still linger today. [The New York Times]• In Austria, a far-right push to roll back smoking bans in restaurants and cafes has stirred more than the usual consternation. [The New York Times]• And a photo of 38 scientists from a whale biology conference in 1971 identified all but the lone woman. Internet sleuths tracked her down. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Ever tried and failed to just stop thinking about doing something? Of course you have. Here’s why it fails.• Fun fact: The shape of your ear affects the way you hear.• Recipe of the day: Homemade fried chicken on a weeknight? Yes.• A study shows the punishing reach of racism in the U.S. White boys who grow up rich are likely to remain so, but not black boys. (No such gap shows up between white and black girls.)• Brian Eno and other pioneering songwriters use virtual reality headsets to take their audience “inside” the music.• The fashion industry is suddenly embracing more diversity. We spoke to some of the models who are changing the catwalk.• The Basque town of Astigarraga has 6,000 residents and an astonishing 19 cider houses.Today, we end with a personal note:Since these briefings’ inception over a year ago, this has been the question I have been asked the most:“How do you know what Europeans want to read?”That’s a fair question for a journalist, albeit a European one, who has spent most of his adult life in Asia, and still is there.It is also a legitimate question for a U.S. newspaper at a time in which American news cycles are focused on the twists and turns of a tumultuous presidency.So, here’s what we do:Every day, we spend hours poring over correspondents’ dispatches and news reports from across Europe, from Iceland to Turkey.In conversations with editors, we seek to distill wider trends from the day-to-day politics and give you what you need to know to start your day.Of course, the result has often been a compromise. Is it flawed? Always.But that’s the rule for all early drafts of history.My last briefing is today’s. I’d like to invite you to keep reading, keep debating and keep challenging assumptions. Thank you for your time! Now enjoy your morning coffee._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
