In March, The New York Times, working with The Observer of London and The Guardian, obtained a cache of documents from inside Cambridge Analytica, the data firm principally owned by the right-wing donor Robert Mercer. The documents proved that the firm, where the former Trump aide Stephen K. Bannon was a board member, used data improperly obtained from Facebook to build voter profiles. The news put Cambridge under investigation and thrust Facebook into its biggest crisis ever. Here’s a guide to our coverage.The Times reported that in 2014 contractors and employees of Cambridge Analytica, eager to sell psychological profiles of American voters to political campaigns, acquired the private Facebook data of tens of millions of users — the largest known leak in Facebook history. There was more. Our article first showed how Cambridge received warnings from its own lawyer, Laurence Levy, as it employed European and Canadian citizens on campaigns, potentially violating American election law. The Times also found that tranches of raw data still existed beyond Facebook’s control.Read how researchers may have used your Facebook “likes” to predict your political views.In a companion piece, The Times reported that people at Cambridge Analytica and its British affiliate, the SCL Group, were in contact with executives from Lukoil, the Kremlin-linked oil giant, as Cambridge built its Facebook-derived profiles. Lukoil was interested in the ways data was used to target American voters, according to two former company insiders. SCL and Lukoil denied that the talks were political in nature and said the oil giant never became a client.The articles drew an instant response in Washington, where lawmakers demanded that Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, testify before Congress. Democrats looking into Russian interference in the 2016 election — already interested in Cambridge’s role in providing analytics to the Trump campaign — said they would seek an investigation into the leak. They were echoed by lawmakers in Britain investigating Cambridge Analytica’s role in disinformation and the country’s referendum to leave the European Union. The Times reported that Cambridge suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, after a British television channel released an undercover video in which he suggested that the company had used seduction and bribery to entrap politicians and influence foreign elections. In Washington, the Federal Trade Commission moved to investigate whether Facebook had violated an early agreement to safeguard user data. The Times reported on a growing number of Facebook users, including the singer Cher, deleting their accounts — and broke news of the departure of Facebook’s top security official, who had clashed with other executives on how to handling discontent over the platform’s role in spreading disinformation. The hashtag #DeleteFacebook began trending on Twitter. After remaining silent for days — spurring another social media hashtag, #WheresZuck? — Mr. Zuckerberg spoke with The Times about steps Facebook was taking to address users’ anger.Our columnist Brian X. Chen explains how to protect your Facebook data.As Facebook reeled, The Times delved into the relationship between Cambridge Analytica and John Bolton, the conservative hawk named national security adviser by President Trump. The Times broke the news that in 2014, Cambridge provided Mr. Bolton’s “super PAC” with early versions of its Facebook-derived profiles — the technology’s first large-scale use in an American election.What about 2016? We examined the skepticism and evidence around the role Cambridge claimed it played in Mr. Trump’s win.The Times and The Observer reported allegations that the 2016 “Brexit” campaign used a Cambridge Analytica contractor to help skirt election spending limits. The story implicated two senior advisers to Prime Minister Theresa May. Testifying to Parliament a few days later, a former Cambridge employee, Christopher Wylie, contended that the company helped swing the results in favor of Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union.In another report, The Times showed how an employee at Palantir Technologies — an intelligence contractor founded by the Trump backer and tech investor Peter Thiel — helped Cambridge harvest Facebook data. The article reported that Palantir and Cambridge executives briefly considered a formal partnership to work on political campaigns. Though the deal fell through, a Palantir employee continued working with Cambridge to figure out how to obtain data for psychographic profiles. Palantir officials said the employee did so in a strictly personal capacity.The Times originally reported that Cambridge harvested data from over 50 million Facebook users. But at the bottom of a company announcement about new privacy features, Facebook’s chief technology officer, Mike Schroepfer, issued a new estimate for the number of users who were affected: as many as 87 million, most of them in the United States.Facebook is responding to users’ distrust. Read how the company introduced a central privacy page. 
BERLIN —  German Justice Minister Katarina Barley said she planned a further meeting with Facebook to discuss the impact of its algorithms on the social network's users, adding that recent disclosures of privacy violations were probably not isolated.Facebook said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, more than previous estimates."I plan a further discussion with Facebook to discuss the question of algorithms [which] govern how people are categorized according to their usage of data," Barley told reporters on Thursday.Data privacy is a sensitive subject in Germany, where memories of the two 20th-century police states on its territory have spurred the government to take a leading role in pushing for tighter regulation of data-driven Internet giants.A poll for ARD public television found that 61 percent of Germany's internet users were concerned that their data had been misused, though only 12 percent said they had cut back on Facebook usage. A further 2 percent had stopped altogether.The meeting with Barley will be the social network's second such summons from the German government since the New York Times and London's Observer newspaper broke news of the use of its data by Cambridge Analytica on March 16. Facebook shares have since lost 16 percent, wiping more than $80 billion from its market value."We should have no illusions: the Cambridge Analytica cases won't be the only ones and Facebook is probably not the only Internet giant where similar doubtful cases occurred," Barley said on Thursday. "It's probably just the tip of the iceberg."Earlier, the British Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) said Facebook was co-operating with its examination into how 30 organizations have used personal data, but that it was too early to say whether the social media giant had done enough.The ICO said it was looking at how data was collected from a third party app on Facebook and shared with Cambridge Analytica, as well as a broader investigation into how social media platforms have been used in political campaigning.(Reporting by Thomas Escritt; Editing by Paul Carrel and Catherine Evans)
THE UKRAINIAN NIGHT An Intimate History of Revolution By Marci Shore 290 pp. Yale University Press. $26On Nov. 21, 2013, Viktor Yanukovych, Ukraine’s president, abruptly suspended long-running negotiations on an association agreement with the European Union. Though Yanukovych personified the corruption, cronyism and oligarchical capitalism rampant in Ukraine, he had previously promoted the accord, which many Ukrainians, particularly in the country’s center and west, anticipated as a pathway to a better life and communion with the West.Within hours, thanks to Facebook and Twitter, protesters thronged Kiev’s Independence Square (Maidan Nezalezhnosti). Once the riot police started beating demonstrators, and especially after the first fatalities, Yanukovych was doomed. By late February, he had fled. Moscow reacted by annexing the Crimea, Ukraine’s sole Russian-majority region, and supporting an armed insurgency in the Donbass (eastern Ukraine), which, compared with central and western Ukraine, has been shaped more by Russian culture and the Soviet past and contains many ethnic Russians, as well as Ukrainians whose primary language is Russian. The fighting has killed more than 10,000 people and placed a heavy economic burden on a country that can ill afford it.Though the Maidan movement cleared the way for the election of the current Ukrainian government, led by the tycoon Petro Poroshenko, the reformers within it face fierce resistance from the beneficiaries of corruption and oligarchy, some of whom are in the cabinet. The reforms have stalled, eroding public faith in Ukraine’s political institutions. The dreams that drove the uprising may yet be realized — or dashed, as happened after the 2004 Orange Revolution, whose failure enabled Yanukovych’s election in 2010.“The Ukrainian Night,” the Yale historian Marci Shore’s compact book (its large-font chapters typically range from two to seven pages), seeks to portray the ideals that animated the protesters. Shore succeeds admirably, particularly because she tells the story through their words. Her sympathy for their courage and her support for a democratic Ukraine aligned with the West are evident, her depictions of the sights, sounds and smells on the Maidan superb. In lucid, if occasionally overwrought, prose she draws evocative portraits of people who braved the bitter cold — and truncheons and bullets — to create a “parallel polis” with barricades, soup kitchens, libraries, rock concerts, fiery speakers and solidarity among Ukrainians of disparate backgrounds.This is not a work of historical scholarship, nor is it comparable to the detailed eyewitness reportage of writers like Keith Gessen or Sophie Pinkham. Shore strides through centuries of Ukraine’s past, but the result verges on potted history: It offers little to readers familiar with Ukraine and not nearly enough for novices seeking to understand the stark cultural and political variations within the country or the complex forces that produced the Maidan revolution. Shore wishes to give the movement a human face, but she devotes so much space to people’s appearances, professions, families, ruminations and inner thoughts that her account resembles a collage of personalities.Shore does not dispute that Yanukovych was elected fairly in 2010 yet fails to explain how a crook and a thug (“hoodlum” is her apt description), who betrayed even the inhabitants of the Donbass, his political bastion, prevailed, or why he suddenly shelved the association agreement. Given her overwhelming focus on Kiev and parts west, she says little about those Ukrainians in Crimea and the Donbass who opposed the Maidan revolt. Generally, they are voiceless — spoken for by Shore herself, or by her pro-Maidan interlocutors (who tend to characterize them as troglodytes). The internal political differences produced by Ukraine’s history are obscured, or dismissed as backward when they do not align with the ideals of the Maidan.“The Ukrainian Night” vividly depicts life on the Maidan. It is less effective in uncovering Ukraine’s complexities and the roots of a still-unfinished revolution.
SAN FRANCISCO —  Facebook Inc said on Thursday it had begun "fact-checking" photos and videos to reduce the hoaxes and false news stories that have plagued the world's largest social media network.Facebook has for months faced an uproar among users whose complaints range from the spread of fake news to the use of the network to manipulate elections and the harvesting of 50 million people's Facebook data by the political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Manipulated photos and videos are another growing problem on social media.The fact-checking began on Wednesday in France with assistance from the news organization AFP and will soon expand to more countries and partners, Tessa Lyons, a product manager at Facebook, said in a briefing with reporters.Lyons did not say what criteria Facebook or AFP would use to evaluate photos and videos, or how much a photo could be edited or doctored before it is ruled fake.The project is part of "efforts to fight false news around elections," she said.A representative for AFP could not immediately be reached for comment.Shares of Facebook closed up 4.4 percent at $159.79 on Thursday after a tumultuous two weeks. It remained down more than 13 percent from March 16, when Facebook disclosed the Cambridge Analytica data leak and sparked fears of stricter regulation.Facebook has tried other ways to stem the spread of fake news. It has used third-party fact-checkers to identify them, and then given such stories less prominence in the Facebook News Feed when people share links to them.In January, Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said Facebook would prioritize "trustworthy" news by using member surveys to identify high-quality outlets.Samidh Chakrabarti, another Facebook product manager, said in the briefing that the company had begun to "proactively" look for election-related disinformation rather than waiting for reports from users, helping it to move more quickly.Alex Stamos, Facebook's chief security officer, said in the briefing that the company was concerned not only about false facts but also other kinds of fakery.He said Facebook wanted to reduce "fake audiences," which he described as using "tricks" to artificially expand the perception of support for a particular message, as well as "false narratives," such as headlines and language that "exploit disagreements."(Reporting by David Ingram; Editing by Richard Chang)
NEW YORK —  Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily Thursday:Conn's Inc., down $5.12 to $30.73The retailer reported disappointing revenue and forecast weak sales in the current quarter.Deere & Co., up $2.77 to $151.34Shares in the farm-equipment maker recovered losses as investors grew less fearful about a trade war between the U.S. and China.J.M. Smucker Co., up 30 cents to $124The maker of jams, jellies and packaged foods said it will buy pet food maker Ainsworth for $1.9 billion.Facebook Inc., up $4.24 to $159.34Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said he doesn't think the company has lost users in the wake of its ongoing privacy scandal.Navient Corp., up 82 cents to $13.66Investment firm Canyon Capital Advisers disclosed a 7.8 percent stake in the student loan servicing company.Ollie's Bargain Outlet Holdings Inc., down $1 to $59.45The retailer's stock gave up some of its recent gains following its fourth-quarter report.Marathon Oil Corp., up 91 cents to $16.80Energy and basic materials companies rose Thursday as the dollar gained strength.Welltower Inc., down 43 cents to $54.73High-dividend stocks including real estate investment trusts declined Thursday as investors got more comfortable tasking risks.
WELLINGTON, New Zealand —  New Zealand's privacy commissioner said Wednesday that Facebook broke the law by not releasing information to a man who wanted to know what others were saying about him on the social network.Commissioner John Edwards said Facebook refused the man access to personal information that was held on the accounts of several Facebook users. Edwards said the company claimed it wasn't bound by New Zealand's privacy laws and didn't have to comply with a request from his office to take a look at the disputed information.Facebook said Edwards had made a "broad and intrusive" request for private data, and that the company was protecting its users."We are disappointed that the New Zealand privacy commissioner asked us to provide access to a year's worth of private data belonging to several people and then criticized us for protecting their privacy," the company said in a statement.The commissioner's finding allows the man to seek financial damages against Facebook. The man wasn't named and it wasn't immediately clear whether he would pursue damages.The case also raises jurisdictional questions. Edwards said Facebook should comply by New Zealand laws but the company was arguing it's not bound by them because its operation is based in Ireland.Edwards said Facebook has 2.5 million users in New Zealand, about half of the nation's population, and that it takes money from New Zealand businesses."We don't believe there's any credible question that it's operating in New Zealand and is subject to New Zealand laws," he said.Facebook didn't address the jurisdictional question in its statement.The company said it had investigated the man's complaint but hadn't got enough detail to resolve it. Facebook said it scrutinized all requests to disclose personal data, particularly the contents of private messages, and would continue to challenge those that were too broad."We have a long history of working with the commissioner, and we will continue to request information that will help us investigate this complaint further," the company said.One course of action for Facebook would be to challenge the commissioner's findings in court. The company did not immediately respond to questions about whether it would pursue legal action.
NEW YORK —  The Latest on a housing discrimination lawsuit filed against Facebook (all times local):6 p.m.Facebook says a lawsuit alleging it lets landlords and real estate brokers discriminate is without merit.The Menlo Park, California-based company says in a statement Tuesday that it will defend itself vigorously against the Manhattan federal court lawsuit.The lawsuit was filed earlier in the day by the National Fair Housing Alliance and other related organizations. They accuse Facebook of designing its software to make it easier for brokers to discriminate against families with children, mothers and those with disabilities.The lawsuit says the company took steps two years ago to prevent racial discrimination in housing advertising but it has not yet succeeded in eliminating other kinds.The company says there is "absolutely no place" for discrimination on Facebook. The suit seeks a court order and damages.___2:43 p.m.Fair housing advocates have sued Facebook, saying it lets landlords and real estate brokers target advertising to discriminate against families with children, women and others.The lawsuit was filed Tuesday in New York federal court by the National Fair Housing Alliance and other organizations. It comes as Facebook faces criticism over allegations British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica used details of 50 million Facebook users to help Republican candidate Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential campaign.The housing groups say Menlo Park, California-based Facebook has abused its power as the biggest advertising agency in the world.The lawsuit alleges investigations by fair housing supporters in New York, Washington, D.C., Miami and San Antonio, Texas, prove Facebook lets advertisers discriminate. It seeks unspecified damages and a court order to end discrimination.Facebook hasn't responded to a message seeking comment.
WASHINGTON —  Facebook isn't just a company. It's a behemoth, with 2.1 billion monthly users, $40 billion in revenue and more than 25,000 employees worldwide.And that leaves Washington with a daunting task: How do you tame a corporate giant? Or do you even try?"It's tricky and it's going to be hard, but there are ways it can be dealt with," says Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, a former tech executive who has led investigations into Russian interference on social media over the last year as the top Democrat on the Intelligence Committee. "The idea that we're going to keep the wild, wild West — I don't think it's sustainable."The picture will begin to come into focus next week. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify April 10 and 11 before Senate and House committees as his company grapples with the privacy scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm linked to President Donald Trump.Facebook's reckoning in Washington comes on multiple fronts. Russia's use of the platform to meddle in U.S. elections, a regulatory investigation that could result in fines of hundreds of millions of dollars against the company for privacy violations, and the Cambridge Analytica episode are all topmost concerns.But in the capital's pro-business, anti-regulatory climate, it's questionable whether the Republican-led Congress or Trump regulators have the appetite to rein it in.Facebook is spending millions on lobbying to try to ward off regulations, even seeking to narrow a Senate bill that lawmakers call "the lightest touch possible." It would require more transparency in online political ads, something Facebook says it is providing on its own.But the stakes grew Wednesday when Facebook revealed that information belonging to as many as 87 million of its users may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, which gathered the data with the intent of swaying elections. That number was far higher than originally known.Congress' response to the myriad issues dogging Facebook could depend on Zuckerberg himself. He has apologized for a "major breach of trust" in the Cambridge Analytica episode and Facebook has announced it would stop working with third-party data collectors.Privacy advocates and legal experts say that's not enough."It strikes me as a company that is trying to weather a PR storm and then get back to business as usual and hoping their users forget this ever happened," said Nate Cardozo, a senior staff attorney for Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy group based in San Francisco.Facebook and other social media companies have faced bipartisan criticism over both privacy issues and the Russian intervention. But Trump and his pro-business GOP allies on Capitol Hill have made rolling back Obama-era regulations a priority, which makes any new federal rules for protecting data and privacy unlikely in the immediate future.Republicans last year struck down online privacy regulations issued during President Barack Obama's final months in office that would have given consumers more control over how companies like Comcast, AT&T and Verizon share information. Critics complained that the rule would have increased costs, stifled innovation and picked winners and losers among internet companies.And Congress elected to do nothing after Equifax disclosed in September that hackers exploited a software flaw that the credit monitoring company failed to fix, exposing Social Security numbers, birthdates and other personal data belonging to nearly 148 million Americans.Lawmakers have yet to come up with a fix for the patchwork of conflicting state laws that govern how companies shield personal data and notify consumers when breaches occur. Mike Litt, consumer campaign director at U.S. PIRG, a public interest group, said Congress instead is considering legislation that would exempt credit bureaus from data break notifications and make it harder for states to hold them accountable."After the Equifax data breach, we saw Congress talk a good game but fail to follow through on helping consumers," Litt said. "To prevent Congress from letting Facebook off the hook, outraged Americans need to keep up the heat."To defend its interests in Washington, Facebook has filled its executive ranks with former senior government officials from both political parties. Nathaniel Gleicher, its director of cybersecurity policy, was in charge of cybersecurity policy at the National Security Council during the Obama administration. Joel Kaplan, Facebook's vice president for global public policy, served as a senior aide to President George W. Bush.The company spent just over $13 million on lobbying in 2017, according to disclosure records filed with Congress. One of the lobbying team's newer members, Sandra Luff, was Attorney General Jeff Sessions' national security adviser when he served in the Senate.Zuckerberg suggested during a CNN interview last month that he's open to regulation. But he quickly qualified that commitment, saying he'd get behind the "right" kind of rules, such as the bill that requires online political ads to disclose who paid for them. But the company is seeking to weaken even that bill.Warner acknowledged that even minor regulation of Facebook and other technology companies will be difficult. But he's encouraging them to work with Washington now, before a "catastrophic event" that could shift the landscape or if Democrats win back seats in November's elections.He suggests several possibilities: requiring Facebook and other companies to disclose the country of origin of ads, creating a self-regulatory body, or even allowing users to move their data from one platform to another.More drastic measures could be to allow users to own their own data or to hold social media companies more responsible for what is posted on their platforms.In Europe, Facebook and other tech giants like Google are bracing for tough new data privacy rules that take effect May 25 and will apply to any company that collects data on EU residents, no matter where it is based. The rules will make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data.In the U.S., Facebook's biggest challenge may come from the Federal Trade Commission, which is investigating whether the company violated the terms of a 2011 settlement that made privacy assurances.Facebook agreed then to settle the commission's charges that it deceived users by assuring them their information would remain private, then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public. Each violation of the agreement could carry a penalty of up to $40,000, according to settlement terms, meaning potential fines in the hundreds of millions.Frank Pasquale, a University of Maryland law professor who's written extensively about how corporations use personal data, said the federal government's antitrust enforcers should be more vigilant with Facebook.Facebook has completed dozens of mergers and acquisitions since it was founded in 2004. Pasquale said the Obama administration failed to realize the significance of two of Facebook's largest purchases: the photo-sharing app Instagram for $1 billion in 2012 and WhatsApp two years later for nearly $22 billion."This is clearly a monopolistic company that is trying to eliminate even the smallest challenge to its domination of the social media market," he said.The privacy scandal has taken a heavy financial toll on Zuckerberg and Facebook. Forbes Magazine estimated that Zuckerberg's net worth dropped over the last month from $71 billion to $61.7 billion. Facebook's market value has fallen by more than $88 billion in less than three weeks since the scandal broke, from nearly $538 billion in mid-March to about $449.5 billion.___Associated Press writer Marley Jay in New York contributed to this report.
ANNAPOLIS, Md. —  Maryland's governor must be more permissive of social media commenters who disagree with him under a settlement to resolve a lawsuit that accused him of censoring constituents by blocking them on Facebook, the American Civil Liberties Union said Monday.The settlement includes a $65,000 payment to the four plaintiffs and a revised social media policy for Republican Gov. Larry Hogan's social media accounts.The ACLU lawsuit alleged the plaintiffs' First Amendment rights had been violated when Hogan blocked them from his official Facebook page or deleted their comments.The lawsuit was one of several filed over the past year against high-profile elected officials across the country, including President Donald Trump, accusing them of blocking constituents on social media.Hogan's new social media policy states that he "does not discriminate based on viewpoint" but may remove comments for reasons including profanity or threats of violence. The policy governs Hogan's Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat and YouTube accounts.Hogan and two aides named as defendants don't admit wrongdoing under the settlement."Ultimately, it was much better for Maryland taxpayers to resolve this, than to continue wasting everyone's time and resources in court," Shareese Churchill, a spokeswoman for Hogan, said Monday.The lawsuit cited a February 2017 Washington Post story that said Hogan and his staff had blocked 450 people from the Facebook page since the time he took office in January 2015.The governor's office has previously said comments were deleted or people were blocked because of spam or offensive content.Janice Lepore, one of the plaintiffs in the Maryland lawsuit, said in a statement that she joined the governor's Facebook page to learn about his positions on education issues. When it became clear they disagreed, she said she sought to engage in a social media conversation. She was blocked, according to the lawsuit."It never occurred to me that the Governor, or his staff, would seek to prohibit me from engaging in conversations in a public forum, simply because my opinions differ from their positions. ... I hope this settlement will promote greater access and engagement for all Maryland citizens," Lepore said.The settlement was approved by the state's Board of Public Works, a three-member panel that includes the governor, comptroller and treasurer, and now must be fully implemented within 14 days, according to the ACLU.
(Reuters) - Shares of Facebook Inc rose as much as 4.2 percent on Thursday after Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said the social network had not seen any meaningful impact on usage or ad sales in the wake of a data privacy scandal.The company's shares have sunk 16 percent, wiping more than $80 billion from its market value since March 16, when the New York Times and London's Observer newspaper broke news of the use of its data by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Some investors see the chaos as a chance to snap up shares in a service for which there is scarce alternative, despite rising public scrutiny and the prospect of a grilling from U.S. legislators when Zuckerberg testifies before Congress next week.Canada's province of British Columbia and Canada's federal government combined investigations on Thursday, saying they had launched a joint probe into Facebook and Canadian data firm AggregateIQ, while Australian authorities said they were exploring whether the social media company had breached user privacy laws.The California State Teachers' Retirement System, with nearly $1 billion in Facebook stock as of last year, on Thursday also said it would question the company about privacy protections.Despite the probes and celebrities including singer Cher, actor Will Ferrell and Tesla Chief Elon Musk deleting their accounts, Facebook's social app downloads improved on a monthly basis both in the United States and globally, according to Evercore ISI.Facebook expanded its share of social app downloads in March by 33.2 percent from 30.1 percent, Evercore data showed.Several Wall Street analysts said the stock's decline presented a good opportunity to buy into the social network's previously high-flying shares, although they cautioned that much will depend on Zuckerberg's testimony to Congress."We suspect that looking back a year from now, if not sooner, this episode will have been a uniquely compelling buying opportunity in the mega-cap internet space," Deutsche Bank analysts said.Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, told Bloomberg in an interview on Thursday that a few advertisers had paused spending in the wake of the incident, but that the company was having reassuring conversations about how it has built privacy into its system. (https://bloom.bg/2q89KMt)Companies including U.S. auto parts retailer Pep Boys, internet company Mozilla and German bank Commerzbank AG have suspended advertisement on the platform.Sandberg also said a tool that allowed a researcher to gain access to personal information of up to 87 million users, complied with a privacy agreement the company signed with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in 2011.Her comments followed reports that the FTC was investigating the company over a possible violation of that agreement, which demands it to get user consent before sharing their information. "While it's clear that investor sentiment has been materially impacted by (the) Cambridge Analytica revelations, we believe FB is acting proactively and aggressively to tighten its privacy controls and increase the level of transparency into its practices," Wells Fargo analyst Ken Sena said.Zuckerberg, who will testify about the scandal next week in front of committees in the U.S. House and Senate, may face calls from legislators for more oversight.Sandberg, in a separate interview with PBS, said: "We're not just open to regulations, we're moving ahead of it," and had built a tool which would be live before the next U.S. election and which would show details of who paid for election ads and demographics of the audience.Facebook shares closed up 2.7 percent at $159.35. (Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee, Sonam Rai and Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru; Mohammad Zargham in Washington; editing by Peter Henderson, Bernard Orr and James Dalgleish)
