MUMBAI — In many countries, Facebook is contending with a darkening reputation as a vehicle for  disinformation and false news. The most recent example: Sri Lanka.This week, the island country sought to block access to the social network, as well as two other platforms that Facebook owns, WhatsApp and Instagram, in an attempt to stem mob violence directed at its Muslim minority. Citing inflammatory posts on Facebook and WhatsApp, the Sri Lankan government ordered internet providers and mobile phone carriers on Wednesday to temporarily block the services along with Viber, another messaging app.“These platforms are banned because they were spreading hate speeches and amplifying them,” Harindra B. Dassanayake, a government spokesman, said in a phone interview on Thursday. Sri Lanka’s government has also imposed a nationwide state of emergency after violence broke out Sunday in one of the island’s central cities, where dozens of Muslim businesses, houses and at least one mosque were attacked. At least one person was killed.Sri Lanka is the latest country to grapple with hate speech being magnified on Facebook, especially in parts of the world that have only recently come online. As use of the social media platform has ballooned in recent years, so have cases of extremist fringe groups using Facebook’s reach to magnify their messages.In Myanmar, where Facebook is so dominant that it is often confused for the internet itself, the social network has been blamed for allowing hate speech to spread, widening longstanding ethnic divisions and stoking violence against the Rohingya ethnic group. In the Philippines, Facebook has been used to spread pro-government propaganda.Internet watchdog groups have long warned that Facebook was being used to distribute hate speech about ethnic minorities in Sri Lanka. Freedom House, a Washington-based nonprofit that advocates for free speech and democracy, said in a recent report that “hate speech against minorities continues to foment on various social media platforms, particularly Facebook.” The report said online campaigns targeting Muslims and other minority groups in Sri Lanka had been ongoing since 2013 and had recently increased.Sri Lankan officials this week blamed Sri Lanka’s Buddhist majority, as well as Muslims, for spreading false information on the social networks.“Some attacks that have actually not taken place are being reported. It spreads that we are being attacked and we have to respond,” said Mr. Dassanayake. In some cases, people were also sharing information on how to make simple bombs, he said.On Thursday, the violence continued, according to news reports. Although Facebook was blocked, WhatsApp was functioning sporadically.On Twitter, two of the country’s legendary cricket players, Kumar Sangakkara and Mahela Jayawardena, tried to defuse tensions.“I strongly condemn the recent acts of violence & everyone involved must be brought to justice regardless of race/ religion or ethnicity,” Mr. Jayawardena tweeted on Wednesday.Sri Lanka is still recovering from a long civil war waged by Tamil separatists. The conflict ended in 2009 after the military crushed the rebels, and hard feelings remain.Facebook said Thursday that it has clear rules against hate speech and incitement to violence. “We are responding to the situation in Sri Lanka and are in contact with the government and nongovernmental organizations to support efforts to identify and remove such content,” the company said in a statement.Mr. Dassanayake confirmed that Facebook was cooperating with the Sri Lankan government. He said that at a meeting in Colombo, the capital, on Thursday morning, the government raised more than 100 items with the company.“Once we come to an agreement on these, and once the situation is under control, Facebook will be live again,” he said. It was not immediately clear what the items entailed.Sri Lanka is hardly the only country to resort to extreme measures like a social media shutdown.Last year, India blocked 22 social networking services — including Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and YouTube — for one month in the disputed territory of Jammu and Kashmir in a bid to curb street protests there. Mobile internet service is also frequently blocked in Kashmir, which borders Pakistan and has gone through spasms of violence for decades.Turkey has also repeatedly shut down Twitter and YouTube for allowing content opposed by the government of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the country’s president.
To the Editor:Re “Facebook Role in Data Misuse Sets Off Storm” (front page, March 19):Although I do not use Facebook, it strikes me that if a large number of people closed their Facebook accounts until it demonstrates more careful use of their personal information, Facebook might make some important changes.BARBARA OSTBY, PALO ALTO, CALIF.To the Editor:I’m shocked! Millions of Facebook users have had their privacy compromised, just as with Equifax. Ten years ago, it was no secret that there was such a thing as hacking, and it was common knowledge that companies were buying and selling people’s personal data.Hardly anyone signed up for freezes with the Big 3 credit bureaus. Instead, they willingly input their information to social media and clicked on a button marked “private.”Yeah, I guess it’s all Equifax and Facebook’s fault.ALAN FIERSTEIN, NEW YORK
SPECIAL POST — People from all walks of life sit down every day (Maybe some of you stand. Who am I to judge?) and solve puzzles to help satisfy that need to put the world in order and test their gray matter.One not-so-well-kept secret on the puzzle-making side of the business is that your favorite puzzle makers may have learned their trade from a more experienced constructor (Full disclosure: I owe my career to Nancy Salomon, who was incredibly patient with me as I learned the ropes.) Mentors are published constructors who give generously of their time and teach new constructors how to polish a theme, what good fill looks like and how to write clues. They are continually giving back to the puzzle community. We stand on their shoulders.Now, two puzzle makers, along with a group of constructors who are generously volunteering their time, would like to help diversify the pool of constructors who contribute to newspapers and magazines. Will Nediger, a 28-year-old professional puzzle maker from London, Ontario, and Erik Agard, a constructor from Gaithersburg, Maryland who makes puzzle for a variety of venues including the Indie 500 Crossword Tournament, have teamed up to encourage more women and people of color to learn the art of crossword puzzle construction.Mr. Nediger and Mr. Agard have created a public group on Facebook called the “Puzzle Collaboration Directory,” an online resource that will match aspiring puzzle makers with experienced constructors to help them learn the craft. While anyone is welcome to join and find a published constructor, the focus is on diversifying the rotation normally seen in newspaper and magazine puzzles.If a potential constructor has “patience, tenacity and [an aptitude for] lateral thinking,” they have what they need to become a good puzzle maker, says Mr. Nediger. And, Mr. Agard chimes in, “a love for solving puzzles. That’s all constructing is, in my opinion, a slightly different puzzle and with room for individuality.”Aspiring puzzlemakers who are not on Facebook can still access the mentors. This is a growing list, but contact any of the constructors here to get started:
After years of collecting way too much data, Facebook has finally been caught in the facilitation of one privacy debacle too many. When Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, testifies before Congress, which he plans to do this month, lawmakers will no doubt ask how Facebook might restore the public’s trust and whether it might accept some measure of regulation. Yet in the big picture, these are the wrong questions to be asking.The right question: What comes after Facebook? Yes, we have come to depend on social networks, but instead of accepting an inherently flawed Facebook monopoly, what we most need now is a new generation of social media platforms that are fundamentally different in their incentives and dedication to protecting user data. Barring a total overhaul of leadership and business model, Facebook will never be that platform.Every business has its founding DNA. Real corporate change is rare, especially when the same leaders remain in charge. In Facebook’s case, we are not speaking of a few missteps here and there, the misbehavior of a few aberrant employees. The problems are central and structural, the predicted consequences of its business model. From the day it first sought revenue, Facebook prioritized growth over any other possible goal, maximizing the harvest of data and human attention. Its promises to investors have demanded an ever-improving ability to spy on and manipulate large populations of people. Facebook, at its core, is a surveillance machine, and to expect that to change is misplaced optimism.What the journalist Walter Lippmann said in 1959 of “free” TV is also true of “free” social media: It is ultimately “the creature, the servant and indeed the prostitute of merchandizing.” But social media itself isn’t going away. It has worked its way into our lives and has come to help satistify the basic human need to connect and catch up. Facebook, in fact, claims lofty goals, saying it seeks to “bring us closer together” and “build a global community.” Those are indeed noble purposes that social media can serve. But if they were Facebook’s true goals, we would not be here.The ideal competitor and successor to Facebook would be a platform that actually puts such goals first. To do so, however, it cannot be just another data-hoarder, like Google Plus. If we have learned anything over the last decade, it is that advertising and data-collection models are incompatible with a trustworthy social media network. The conflicts are too formidable, the pressure to amass data and promise everything to advertisers is too strong for even the well-intentioned to resist.So what stands in the way of building a genuine alternative? It isn’t the technology. A good Facebook competitor needs merely to build a platform that links you with friends and allows posting of thoughts, pictures and comments. No, the real challenge is gaining a critical mass of users. Facebook, with its 2.2 billion users, will not disappear, and it has a track record of buying or diminishing its rivals (see Instagram and Foursquare). But as Lyft is proving by stealing market share from Uber, and as Snapchat proved by taking taking younger audiences from Facebook, “network effects” are not destiny. Now is the time for a new generation of Facebook competitors that challenge the mother ship.One set of Facebook alternatives might be provided by firms that are credibly privacy-protective, for which users would pay a small fee (perhaps 99 cents a month). In an age of “free” social media, paying might sound implausible — but keep in mind that payment better aligns the incentives of the platform with those of its users. The payment and social network might be bundled with other products such as the iPhone or the Mozilla or Brave browser.Another “alt-Facebook” could be a nonprofit that uses that status to signal its dedication to better practices, much as nonprofit hospitals and universities do. Wikipedia is a nonprofit, and it manages nearly as much traffic as Facebook, on a much smaller budget. An “alt-Facebook” could be started by Wikimedia, or by former Facebook employees, many of whom have congregated at the Center for Humane Technology, a nonprofit for those looking to change Silicon Valley’s culture. It could even be funded by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, which was created in reaction to the failures of commercial television and whose mission includes ensuring access to “telecommunications services that are commercial free and free of charge.”When a company fails, as Facebook has, it is natural for the government to demand that it fix itself or face regulation. But competition can also create pressure to do better. If today’s privacy scandals lead us merely to install Facebook as a regulated monopolist, insulated from competition, we will have failed completely. The world does not need an established church of social media.
Q. How do I delete Facebook Messenger from my phone?A. Facebook Messenger, the company’s chat program, was spun out of the Facebook mobile app in 2011, before the social network removed the chat function from the main app in 2014. As with other third-party apps, you can remove it from your phone with a few taps.If you use Messenger on a phone running a recent version of Android, open the Settings icon and select Apps & Notifications. Find the Messenger icon; if you do not see it, tap See All Apps (or App Info) first. Tap the Uninstall option. You can also delete an app from the Android home screen by pressing its icon and then dragging it to the Uninstall symbol that appears at the top of the screen.You can also remove Android apps by opening the Google Play store icon on your phone, tapping the three-lined menu icon in the top-left corner and selecting My Apps & Games. On the next screen, tap the Installed tab, find the Messenger icon and tap the Open button. When the app’s page is open, tap the Uninstall button.To delete Messenger on an iPhone, go to the home screen, find the app’s icon and press your finger on it until the tile begins to wiggle. Once the wiggling starts, a small X appears in the icon’s top-left corner. Tap the X, and when the alert box pops up, confirm you wish to delete the app.Even if you remove the mobile Messenger app (and do not delete your Facebook account), your Facebook friends can still send you messages when you are logged into the desktop version of the site. A stand-alone web version is also available at Messenger.com. If you prefer not to use the chat function, tell your friends to reach you by other means.
This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday.The election of Donald Trump was so shocking — and damaging to the country — that many people went looking for a scapegoat. There was a long list of candidates.Hillary’s flawed campaign. Bernie’s long campaign. The Electoral College. The media. Sexist voters. Racist voters. Economically anxious voters. Nonvoters. James Comey. Anthony Weiner. Vladimir Putin. Twitter. And Facebook.By spreading false news stories and giving a megaphone to Russian trolls, Facebook — a vastly larger social network than Twitter — played a meaningful role in the presidential campaign. Of course, so did many other suspects on the list. There was no single factor that allowed Trump to win. It was a confluence.If anything, the role of Facebook and its executives has sometimes been exaggerated. “Whatever role they played surely pales in relative importance to a whole host of other factors,” Ben Thompson, the author of the Stratechery blog, pointed out yesterday (in his subscriber-only newsletter), “and it makes sense that Facebook executives would feel persecuted on that front.”But, as Thompson explains, “The problem comes when arguing about details results in missing the big picture: fake news on Facebook may not have been the deciding factor many think it was, but Facebook’s effect on the news surely mattered.” And Facebook’s executives have indeed missed this big picture, claiming that their company played no significant role in Trump’s victory.That’s simply wrong, and the company’s defensiveness is one reason that its image problems are becoming significant.Facebook, as Vox’s Emily Stuart wrote yesterday, “is under siege from lawmakers, regulators, users, shareholders, and even its own employees amid revelations that Cambridge Analytics, a data analytics firm used by the Trump campaign in the 2016 election, secretly harvested personal data from 50 million of its users.”In a 2014 speech, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s C.E.O., said, “In every single thing we do, we always put people first.” By that, he said he meant that Facebook would give people “control over how they share their information.”Facebook didn’t do that.“Where is Mark Zuckerberg?” asks Recode’s Kurt Wagner. “Facebook has dealt with these kinds of firestorms before,” Wagner writes. “But this time feels different. Users are fed up. Politicians are fed up. And investors are clearly concerned: Facebook just had its worst two-day stock performance since 2012, the year the company IPO’d. It has lost more than $50 billion off its market cap.”“It’s time” for Zuckerberg and other top Facebook officials “to come and testify,” Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said yesterday. Meanwhile, at the White House ... “This is depressing,” Matt Glassman of Georgetown University tweeted, referring to the story about Trump ignoring his national security advisers and cozying up to Putin on a phone call. “But boy, think about the atmosphere at the WH that leads to stuff like this leaking. Toxic.” In The Times. Kevin Rudd, the former prime minister of Australia, is an astute observer of China, and I recommend his new op-ed on Xi Jinping.
SYDNEY —  Australia's Privacy Commissioner said on Thursday she had opened a formal investigation into social media giant Facebook Inc after the company confirmed data from 300,000 Australian users may have been used without authorisation.The investigation will consider whether Facebook has breached Australia's privacy laws, Privacy Commissioner Angelene Falk said in a statement.Facebook said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more than 50 million.(Reporting by Tom Westbrook; Editing by Michael Perry)
SYDNEY —  Australia on Thursday said it had begun an investigation to decide whether social media giant Facebook Inc breached its privacy laws, after the company confirmed data from 300,000 Australian users may have been used without authorization.Personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, Facebook said on Wednesday, exceeding a media estimate of more than 50 million.In a statement, Australia's privacy commissioner, Angelene Falk, said her office would "confer with regulatory authorities internationally", given the global nature of the matter.A Facebook spokeswoman in Australia said the company would be "fully responsive" to the investigation and had recently updated some privacy settings.Facebook's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, told reporters during a conference call that he accepted blame for the data leak.Zuckerberg is due to testify about the matter next week during two U.S. congressional hearings, and the data breach has drawn criticism from lawmakers and regulators around the world.London-based Cambridge Analytica, which has counted U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign among its clients, disputed Facebook's estimate of affected users.It said in a tweet on Wednesday that it received no more than 30 million records from a researcher it hired to collect data about people on Facebook.Australia's investigation follows comments by New Zealand's privacy commissioner last week that Facebook had broken laws in that country, a charge the company called disappointing.Australia's competition regulator is already investigating whether Facebook and Alphabet Inc's Google had disrupted the news media to the detriment of publishers and consumers.(Reporting by Tom Westbrook; Editing by Michael Perry and Clarence Fernandez)
Want the Australia Letter by email? Sign up and forward to your friends for heaps of global coverage and provocative Australia insight. ______When Francesca Donner, director of The New York Times Gender Initiative, arrived in Australia a few weeks ago, she was almost immediately swept up in the wave of #MeToo and news media activities.In addition to public panels on the #MeToo movement, there were conferences, university discussions and a dinner with young female New York Times readers to talk about our coverage.Everyone, it seemed, had something to say about #MeToo.On her way back to New York, Francesca jotted down a few impressions about Australia’s gender movement and how it compares with what’s happening in the United States.Her thoughts raised as many questions as they answered, and we hope you’ll share your insights as we unpack the issue.Notebook from SydneyBecause I’m director of the New York Times Gender Initiative, many people I met on my travels wanted to talk me about women and Trump and women and sexual harassment and women and Harvey and women and the workplace and women and women and women.But they also had a few things to share, too.The rumblings from women and people in their 20s and 30s began almost at once:“Australian politics is a boys’ club. The journalists here don’t cover politicians as aggressively as they do in the U.S. Exhibit A (and B and C and D): Barnaby Joyce!”“And the press! The press! There are so few publications we identify with! Most young people just turn away and shrug.”“And the defamation laws! It’s almost impossible for the press to cover sexual harassment. Meanwhile, sexual harassment is rife in universities, at workplaces and on and on!”And yet.The Sydney Opera House was hosting a day all about women called “All About Women.” Attendees who were mostly women (and a few odd men out) turned out in the thousands. The festival aired around the country on local TV stations. People tuned in.And yet.The ABC devoted episodes to International Women’s Day and two ABC national radio stations (Fran Kelly and Richard Glover) invited me on to talk Harvey Weinstein and, you guessed it, women.And yet.Gay marriage had been recently legalized. And the city of Sydney would pay homage to the passing of the law at its 40th Anniversary Mardi Gras celebrations. And yet.Barnaby Joyce, the former deputy prime minister, a champion of family values, who had fathered a child with a staff member who was not his wife, and accepted a rent-free townhouse from a millionaire politician, had stepped down from his post. On the surface it looked like progress but underneath, was it? It got me thinking: What should women (and others) in Australia realistically expect from a gender movement? Are hopes pinned too high? Or do expectations not go far enough? So here are my questions for you, Australia: How do you think the movement in Australia compares with the wave of accountability sweeping the rest of the world?And what does gender progress in a macho country like Australia look like, anyway? Tell us what you what you think. Send feedback to nytaustralia@nytimes.com or join us in our Facebook group and we’ll feature some of your comments in next week’s newsletter.Now let’s catch up with news of the week, and what to watch on Netflix on April.______The Chinese government has long sought to shape and control information, but the scope and intensity of the Communist Party’s censoring effort has intensified and Hong Kong booksellers like Lam Wing-kee are the ones paying the price.“I never expected anything like this, just as a poor man never dreams of striking it rich overnight,” Mr. Lam said.______Sometimes the most memorable stories are those of a single individual who hit a fork in the road, and took off in a surprising direction.This is one of those stories capturing the life of a violin prodigy, who left the music behind, almost.______News and Features• Australians Are the World’s Biggest Gambling Losers, and Some Seek Action: The average Australian adult loses around $900 to gambling each year — more than double the rate of Americans — and electronic gaming machines are getting the blame.• An International Final Four: Which Country Handles Student Debt Best? In America, college student loan defaults are a really big problem. In Australia? No worries.• No Hat, No Play: It’s strange the things you miss when you move away.• Momofuku Seiobo Champions Caribbean Food With Australia’s Bounty: Paul Carmichael, the chef, delivers a profoundly pleasurable experience at the Sydney location of David Chang’s restaurant group.• South Africa Says Australia Retracted Claim of ‘Persecuted’ White Farmers: Australia has disavowed its home minister’s view that white farmers needed refuge in a “civilized country,” South Africa’s top diplomat says.Sports• A Hero of Australian Surfing Paddles Out One Last Time: Mick Fanning, a three-time world champion whose list of accomplishments includes punching a great white shark, is preparing his exit from pro surfing.• Cricket Hero Breaks Down in Tears on TV Over Cheating: A cheating scandal over a plot by Australia’s team captain has seized the cricket world and turned into a national embarrassment.• Australian Cricket Has Its Own Deflategate, and a Nation Reels: Steve Smith, one of the country’s most revered sportsmen, admits his role in a ball-tampering scheme, prompting national discussion and soul-searching.• At the Commonwealth Games, Competing for Medals and Relevance: The Games will soon descend onto the Gold Coast’s beaches, bringing an array of the world’s best athletes, and nagging questions of relevance, competitiveness and economic impact.• What to Do in Australia’s Gold Coast: There is no shortage of bland but familiar luxury. If you dig a little, though, there is a lot more to the city than its glittery facade.______Don’t Fix Facebook. Replace It. Tim Wu argues that in the wake of Facebook’s latest scandal, we need better options that are designed to protect our privacy.The Autocrats’ Playbook. Michelle Goldberg says you don’t have to love Amazon to see the risk of Donald Trump’s threats against the company.How to Talk About ‘Race’ and Genetics. A much-discussed Sunday Review essay by David Reich asks: How should scientists handle the eventuality that for a few traits, average differences among populations will be discovered?______Here’s our monthly guide to what’s on Netflix in Australia, which always seems to be popular with our readers and subscribers.My personal pick: “The Lobster.” If I even tried to explain it, I would fail miserably — but it’s definitely a memorable film. It’s about love. And dictatorship. Maybe.Here’s a New York Times review to give us all a hand.
A parade of regulators, politicians and law enforcement officials demanded to know more about Facebook’s privacy practices on Monday, as the fallout from the company’s relationship with a political data firm continued to spread.Early in the day, the Federal Trade Commission confirmed reports that it was investigating how Facebook handles information about its users.Soon after, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, invited Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, to testify about privacy standards next month. He also extended invitations to Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, and Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey.And a group of 37 attorneys general sent Mr. Zuckerberg a letter asking for details about Facebook’s privacy safeguards.But one group of people interested in Facebook — investors — had a muted reaction to the growing regulatory threat. Shares of Facebook fell sharply after the F.T.C. confirmed its investigation but ended the day up 0.4 percent as overall trading on Wall Street recovered from a big drop last week.The federal investigation and threats followed recent news that the data collection firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked on the 2016 Trump presidential campaign, gained access to the personal data of more than 50 million Facebook users.The F.T.C. said it planned to determine whether the social media giant had violated a consent decree it signed in 2011 to protect users’ privacy.The decree required Facebook to notify and receive explicit permission from users before sharing their personal information beyond the limits dictated by their privacy settings. Each violation of the agreement, which the agency reached with Facebook as part of a settlement over third-party apps, carries a penalty of up to $40,000 a day.The agency’s acknowledgment of its investigation helped push Facebook’s stock down as much as 6.5 percent on Monday morning before it recovered. Facebook said last week that it was anticipating an inquiry by the agency.The F.T.C. said in a statement on Monday that it “takes very seriously recent press reports raising substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook.”Lawmakers have repeatedly called for Mr. Zuckerberg to appear in hearings on Capitol Hill. Last week, the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate commerce committees formally invited him to testify.“I’m sure this is much bigger than Cambridge Analytica, and I’m sure there are other Cambridge Analyticas out there,” Senator John Kennedy, Republican from Louisiana, said in an interview. “Facebook isn’t just a company. It is so powerful it is like a country.”Some lawmakers, such as Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat from Connecticut, asked the F.T.C. to look into whether Facebook should pay damages to users.“The sphere of scrutiny must be broader than just the consent decree,” he said in a statement. “There is no excuse for delay.”Cambridge Analytica is facing intense criticism, too. On Monday, Common Cause, a government watchdog group in Washington, filed complaints seeking federal investigations into allegations that the company violated federal election law.In an article that detailed how Cambridge Analytica obtained information about millions of Facebook users, The New York Times reported this month that employees of the data research firm with European or Canadian citizenship had worked extensively for its American clients during the 2014 and 2016 elections, despite a warning from its own election lawyer.The employees worked on polling, message development, and the designing of target audiences for digital ads and fund-raising appeals.The company said the work was permissible because none of the foreign employees had “strategic” or “operational” roles. But former employees contradicted that account, suggesting that the work violated laws in the United States that strictly limit what non-Americans can do for American political campaigns.Common Cause filed one complaint with the Justice Department, which has authority to investigate “knowing and willful” violations of campaign law. The group also filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission, which has day-to-day jurisdiction over enforcing election rules.“It defies belief that even after their own attorney warned them that they would be violating the prohibition on performing certain election-related activities in U.S. elections that they did so anyway,” said Paul S. Ryan, Common Cause’s vice president for policy and litigation.In the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco, lawyers appealed two lawsuits that challenged the social media company’s privacy and user data policies. One lawsuit claims that Facebook violates the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (Wiretap Act) and state law equivalents because of the way it monitors its users on and off the platform.The second suit claims that Facebook has been capturing and selling the details of users’ browsing of third-party health sites. Any site with a Facebook “like” button, including those of medical institutions such as the American Cancer Society and the American Society of Clinical Oncology, could be used to track users as they browsed outside Facebook, according to the lawsuit.Facebook also has been targeted by several shareholder lawsuits since the reports detailing Cambridge Analytica’s use of Facebook user information.Many users have threatened to deactivate or delete their accounts to protest Facebook’s stewardship of their personal data. The #deletefacebook campaign, as it has been called, has even received support from a creator of WhatsApp, one of Facebook’s most popular services, who sold his company to the social media giant for $19 billion in 2014. Elon Musk, the chief executive of SpaceX and Tesla, removed the Facebook pages of both companies on Friday.While the Cambridge Analytica revelations have renewed regulatory interest in Facebook in the United States, pressure on the company in other countries has been building for years.The company has been the subject of several privacy investigations and charges by European regulators. And Europe has approved a new privacy law, which takes effect in May, that will give users of Facebook, Google and other internet services more control over how their data is collected and what Silicon Valley companies know about them.
