Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherFive days after details about Cambridge Analytica were made public, Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, broke his silence on his company’s role in the data breach.Minutes after posting a statement on Facebook, he spoke with The New York Times.On today’s episode:• Kevin Roose, a business columnist for The Times.Background reading:• Facebook, in crisis over the Cambridge Analytica data breach, vows to bolster security and privacy.• A transcript of Mr. Zuckerberg’s conversation with Mr. Roose and another Times reporter, Sheera Frenkel.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to “The Daily” from any podcast player. If you’re reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If you’re on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”
NEW YORK —  The CEO of Facebook is defending its advertising-supported business model.Mark Zuckerberg's defense comes after Apple CEO Tim Cook said his company wouldn't be in Facebook's situation because Apple doesn't sell ads based on customer data the way Facebook does. Zuckerberg responded Monday that an advertising-supported business model is the only way that the service can survive because not everyone would be able to pay for Facebook if it charged a fee.He says the idea that Facebook doesn't care about its customers is "extremely glib."Facebook is facing scrutiny over its data collection following allegations that political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica obtained data on tens of millions of Facebook users to try to influence elections.Zuckerberg spoke with Vox , while Cook talked with Recode last week.
LONDON —  The Latest on the Facebook privacy scandal (all times local):6:30 p.m.Britain's Information Commissioner says some 30 organizations — including Facebook — are being investigated to see how social media platforms were used in political campaigns.Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham's statement Thursday comes a day after Facebook announced that tens of millions more people might have been exposed in the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal than previously thought. In all, Facebook says as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed.Denham says her office is "conducting a broader investigation into how social media platforms were used in political campaigning." She says the investigation could result in enforcement action.She says "Facebook has been co-operating with us and, while I am pleased with the changes they are making, it is too early to say whether they are sufficient under the law."___9:30 p.m. (Sydney time)The European Union is contacting data protection authorities in its member nations and in the United States to better follow up investigations into whether Facebook breached EU privacy laws when millions of people had their data accessed through a leak.EU spokesman Christian Wigand said on Thursday that the bloc's justice chief Vera Jourova would have "high-level contacts in the coming days" with Facebook officials and also reach out to data protection officials, including the British authority which is leading the European investigation.Facebook said Wednesday that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed."You can be sure that we will continue to follow these investigations by the relevant authorities closely," Wigand said.___4:30 p.m. (Sydney time)Australian authorities say they are investigating whether Facebook breached the country's privacy law when personal information of more than 300,000 Australian users was obtained by Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-linked political consulting firm, without their authorization.Privacy Commissioner Angelene Falk said Thursday that the Privacy Act requires all organizations to ensure personal information is held securely. Customers must also be adequately notified about the collection and handling of personal information.Each breach of the Privacy Act can involve a 420,000 Australian dollar fine ($323,000). The privacy commissioner can also seek a court injunction and require offenders to pledge, under threat of further court action, to prevent further breaches.
For a business built on growing friendships, Facebook is making an astonishing number of enemies. Revelations that some 50 million of its user profiles were inappropriately harvested add to a list of outcries over the social network’s practices. It has come to the point where Facebook’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, will have to prove somehow he is not in way over his head.Mr. Zuckerberg, a 33-year-old Harvard dropout, has encountered doubters every step of the way since starting Facebook in his dorm room and building it into a juggernaut valued at more than $500 billion. The hubris accumulated from the achievements is now plain to see. Mr. Zuckerberg seems either oblivious to — or incapable of assuming — the responsibilities of running an enterprise of extraordinary political, cultural and social influence.It is evident even in the company’s lame response to the latest imbroglio. The New York Times and The Observer of London chronicled, with the help of a whistle-blower, how a political consultancy, Cambridge Analytica, exploited Facebook user information. Worse, they say, Facebook knew about it and failed to alert customers. The tin-eared first lines of defense over such harrowing claims were to argue that what occurred was not technically a “data breach” and to belatedly suspend the firm’s account.Responses from outside Facebook were notably, and deservedly, more severe. Lawmakers in the United States called for investigations into the leaks. Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, demanded that Mr. Zuckerberg appear before the Senate Judiciary Committee, on which she sits. A Conservative British lawmaker called for him to testify in a parliamentary inquiry over Russian meddling in Britain’s referendum to leave the European Union. For over a year, Mr. Zuckerberg has been ducking such requests even as he embarked on a road trip across America last year to meet people in every state.Facebook has abjectly failed to grasp the magnitude of its problems. It took Mr. Zuckerberg almost a year to apologize for his blithe 2016 comment that fake news posted across the social network didn’t influence the presidential election. In the meantime, there are mounting concerns over its online advertising power, handling of privacy matters and how much tax it pays in Europe. Ten years ago, Mr. Zuckerberg hired Sheryl Sandberg to help turn his start-up into a serious corporation. It may be time for more adult supervision.
Facebook is once again struggling with revelations that manipulative characters exploited the vulnerabilities of its platform during the 2016 election to put Donald Trump in the White House. The company said last week that it was suspending the accounts of Cambridge Analytica, a company that worked for the Trump campaign, and a professor, Aleksandr Kogan, who is said to have deceptively amassed information from more than 50 million people without their consent. That may sound like decisive action, but it came more than two years after Facebook learned of the problem.Starting in 2014, Mr. Kogan got the data, using a quiz app, under the guise of academic research. He handed the information to Cambridge Analytica, which used it to build profiles of voters’ personalities, according to reports in The New York Times and The Observer of London on Saturday.What is particularly disturbing about this case is that Facebook has not yet identified and alerted users whose profile information was vacuumed up by the app, most of whom had never used it but were friends with somebody else who had. Further, Facebook did not verify that Cambridge Analytica and Mr. Kogan deleted the data after the social media company told them to in 2015. The Times reported that Cambridge still had most or all of the data.Facebook’s response so far is reminiscent of its slow, defensive reaction to the spread of pro-Trump fake news on its platform during the 2016 presidential campaign. Days after the election, Facebook’s founder and chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said it was a “pretty crazy idea” to suggest that fake news had influenced the outcome. It took months for him to admit that he was wrong to so cavalierly dismiss the importance of hoaxes spread on Facebook, many of them by people working on behalf of the Russian government.It is hard to know just how useful the profile information from Facebook was in Cambridge’s effort to help elect Mr. Trump. The company has offered contradictory statements about its use of what’s called “psychographic data” for the campaign, which included targeting political messages to voters receptive to them. The trove contained enough details about roughly 30 million people, including where they lived, that the company was able to build detailed profiles by linking the data to other sources of information.Officials in the United States and the European Union are investigating Cambridge Analytica, and others say they might, including members of Congress and the attorney general of Massachusetts, Maura Healey. In Britain, regulators and lawmakers are looking at whether the company tried to illegally influence the “Brexit” referendum of 2016.More investigations may be on the way. On Monday, Channel 4 News in Britain released hidden-camera tapes in which Cambridge executives said that their company used bribes and prostitutes to entrap politicians. The company denies engaging in corruption and extortion. Robert Mercer, the hedge fund billionaire who is a big supporter of Mr. Trump, owns a controlling stake in Cambridge, and Stephen Bannon, the former chief strategist for the president, is a former company board member.Lawmakers and regulators also ought to investigate Facebook’s response. For starters, they need to take a close look at whether the company is in violation of a 2011 consent decree with the Federal Trade Commission, which had accused it of deceiving users by telling them their information would be kept private and then allowing it to be shared and made public. They also need to force the company to quickly identify and alert the tens of millions of people whose information might have been disclosed to Cambridge.In the longer term, Congress clearly needs to strengthen privacy laws to give people more control over private information and prevent businesses and political campaigns from harvesting personal data under false pretenses. President Barack Obama proposed a privacy bill of rights in 2012, but the idea died in Congress after technology and advertising companies claimed it would be an unfair burden.Facebook says it takes this case seriously. But it is clear that lawmakers cannot rely on the company to police itself.
NEW YORK —  The author of a provocative Facebook memo declaring that growth is justified even if it costs lives says he doesn't actually agree with the memo and wrote it to provoke debate.The 2016 internal memo, titled "The Ugly," was leaked to BuzzFeed this week. In it, Facebook executive Andrew Bosworth said "all the work we do in growth is justified," even if it costs people their lives because they are exposed to bullies or die in a terrorist attack coordinated through Facebook.Bosworth, who goes by "Boz," has been at Facebook since 2006 and serves as the company's vice president in charge of virtual- and augmented-reality efforts. Previously, he was vice president of ads and helped create Facebook features such as Messenger, its news feed and groups.Bosworth tweeted Thursday that the memo was one of the most unpopular things he's written internally, and "the ensuing debate helped shape our tools for the better."In a statement to BuzzFeed that Facebook confirmed, CEO Mark Zuckerberg called Bosworth a "talented leader who says many provocative things," but added the memo was something "that most people at Facebook including myself disagreed with strongly.""We've never believed the ends justify the means," Zuckerberg said in the statement. "We recognize that connecting people isn't enough by itself. We also need to work to bring people closer together. We changed our whole mission and company focus to reflect this last year."Facebook is grappling with an unprecedented crisis over allegations that Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm, obtained data of tens of millions of users without their permission with the intent of swaying elections. That followed a string of scandals, including revelations that Russia used its platform to meddle in U.S. elections.Facebook is facing new questions about its practice of collecting call and text histories from Android devices. The company has not provided details on why it needed this data or what it did with it, saying only that it was used to improve people's experience on Facebook. It's not clear how the data collection made Facebook users' experience better on Android devices when Facebook couldn't get the same data from iPhones.
VANCOUVER —  The Canadian federal agency charged with protecting privacy rights of individuals said on Thursday that it, along with its counterpart in British Columbia, will jointly investigate Facebook Inc and Canadian data firm AggregateIQ, over an ongoing data sharing scandal.The Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada said the probes, which broaden two existing investigations, will look at whether the companies broke federal and provincial personal privacy rules.Canada's privacy commissioner launched an investigation of Facebook in March after the New York Times and London's Observer newspaper broke news of the use of Facebook data by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Facebook Canada said on Wednesday that more than 600,000 Canadians had their data "improperly shared" with Cambridge Analytica.British Columbia's privacy commissioner was separately investigating AggregateIQ over whether the Victoria-based company had broken provincial personal privacy rules for its role in the Brexit campaign.The two agencies will now jointly investigate the companies, as they are subject to both federal and provincial personal privacy laws.(Reporting by Julie Gordon in Vancouver; Editing by Chris Reese and Richard Chang)
BOSTON —  The California State Teachers' Retirement System will ask Facebook Inc about the controls the social media company has in place to protect user data, the system said in a statement on Thursday.(Reporting by Ross Kerber, editing by G Crosse)
NEW YORK —  Facebook is asking users whether they think it's "good for the world" in a poll sent to an unspecified number of people.The poll appears under the heading, "We'd like to do better," when users log in. Possible responses range from "strongly agree" to "strongly disagree."The company has been grappling with a privacy scandal and other troubles . But Facebook says this survey began well before that; versions date back to 2012. The company regularly polls users on other aspects of its service, too.CEO Mark Zuckerberg has said he wants to ensure that Facebook is a force for good. Whether it is hasn't been clear amid revelations of bad actors using Facebook to influence elections, spread hatred and pilfer user information.
NEW YORK —  The Latest on Facebook's privacy scandal (all times local):8:35 p.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has agreed to testify in a second congressional hearing next week, this time in the Senate.Zuckerberg will appear at a rare joint hearing of the Senate Judiciary and Commerce Committees on April 10.Earlier Wednesday, the House Energy and Commerce Committee announced that Zuckerberg would be testifying at a hearing on April 11.Lawmakers have called for Zuckerberg to appear personally after revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a Trump-linked political consulting firm, obtained data of tens of millions of users without their permission with the intent of swaying elections. The company has also been under scrutiny after Russians used Facebook and other social media to meddle in the 2016 elections.Zuckerberg will be the only witness at the hearing.___5:15 p.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg says fixing the company's problems will take many years.In a conference call with reporters Wednesday, Zuckerberg said he wishes he could snap his fingers and solve everything in three to six months. But, he said, "these are big issues" and a big shift for Facebook.That says, he says the company will have "turned a corner" on a lot of these issues by the end of the year.Zuckerberg has set fixing Facebook as his personal challenge for 2018.The issues Facebook needs to address go beyond the privacy scandal involving Trump-affiliated consulting firm Cambridge Analytica. Facebook also has been dealing with fake news, the use of Facebook to spread hate and discord and concerns about social media's effect on people's mental well-being.___4:20 p.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is admitting to mistakes and says his company hasn't taken a broad enough view of what its responsibility is in the world.In a call with media on Wednesday, Zuckerberg calls this a "huge mistake" and added, "it's my mistake."Referring to the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal, he said that it isn't enough for Facebook to believe app developers when they say they follow the rules. He says Facebook has to ensure they do.Earlier in the day, Facebook revealed that as many as 87 million people might have had their data accessed by Cambridge Analytica — an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports.___2:45 p.m.Facebook is restricting the user data it allows outsiders to access as part of steps it's taking to address the fallout from its worst privacy crisis in years.The company is reeling from news that a Trump-affiliated data-mining firm used ill-gotten data from millions of users to try to influence elections. Facebook says as many as 87 million people may have had their data accessed — an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports.Among the latest changes: Facebook is restricting access that apps can get about users' events, as well as information about groups such as member lists and content.In addition, the company is also removing the option to search for users by entering a phone number or an email address. While this helped individuals find friends who may have a common name, Facebook says businesses that had phone or email information on customers were able to collect profile information this way.___2:30 p.m.Facebook says as many as 87 million people may have had their data accessed in the Cambridge Analytica scandal — an increase from the 50 million disclosed in published reports.Cambridge Analytica, a data-mining firm affiliated with President Donald Trump's campaign, has been accused of using ill-gotten data from Facebook users to try to influence elections.This coming Monday, all Facebook users will receive a notice on their Facebook feeds with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. They'll have a chance to delete apps they no longer want.Users who had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will be told of that within that notice. Facebook says most of the affected users are in the U.S.___12:30 p.m.Now that Mark Zuckerberg is set to testify before Congress, he'll need advice not just from lawyers but from communications specialists, too, on addressing Facebook's privacy scandal.Public-relations experts who have prepped CEOs before say that congressional hearings are more political theater than public policy. The so-called "optics" — how things look — are as important as what you say.Other advice for the Facebook CEO? Appear sympathetic and be ready for a beating. Take responsibility. Don't feign ignorance.The stakes are high for Zuckerberg's April 11 appearance before the House Energy and Commerce Committee.___NoonFacebook's new privacy policy aims to explain the data it gathers on users more clearly — but doesn't actually change what it collects and shares.The company unveiled the revisions Wednesday as it faces one of its worst privacy scandals in history. Although Facebook says the changes aren't prompted by recent events, it's an opportune time. CEO Mark Zuckerberg is also set to testify before Congress next week for the first time.Among Wednesday's changes: Facebook has added a section explaining that it collects people's contact information, which may include call logs and text histories. The previous policy did not mention call logs or text histories. Several users were surprised to learn recently that Facebook had been collecting such data.___8:30 a.m.The leaders of a House oversight committee say Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will testify before the panel on April 11.In an announcement Wednesday, Reps. Greg Walden and Frank Pallone say the hearing will focus on the Facebook's "use and protection of user data." Facebook is facing scrutiny over its data collection following allegations that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica obtained data on tens of millions of Facebook users to try to influence elections.Walden, R-Ore., is the House Energy and Commerce committee's chairman. Pallone of New Jersey is the panel's top ranking Democrat. They say the hearing will be "an important opportunity to shed light on critical consumer data privacy issues and help all Americans better understand what happens to their personal information online."
