Over the last half decade, few stocks have been more beloved by investors and Wall Street analysts than Facebook. No wonder: After a rocky initial public offering in 2012, it has rolled over one obstacle after another, including the shift to mobile computing and the rise of photo sharing. It delivered revenue and user growth that surpassed even the most optimistic projections.By the end of last year, Facebook had 2.2 billion active users. Its stock rose 53 percent last year, single-handedly accounting for 3.7 percent of the 21.8 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, according to S.&P. Dow Jones Indices. By early February, its market capitalization had surpassed $560 billion, making it the fifth most valuable company in the index.By then Facebook alone accounted for nearly 2 percent of the S.&P. 500 index, which means that anyone who owns a broad-based stock mutual fund or index fund probably owns Facebook shares. Sophisticated investors and institutions, too, have considerable exposure: Goldman Sachs analysts reported last month that Facebook was the second most widely held stock (after Amazon) by hedge funds.Over 90 percent of Wall Street analysts covering the company deemed Facebook a “buy” in early February, even though, at $195 a share, its price-to-earnings ratio, a common valuation measure, was a lofty 35. (The average ratio now is about 24; historically, it has been about 15.)It was, as Wall Street pundits like to say, “priced for perfection.”Whatever else can be said about Facebook’s recent tribulations, this much is certain: Its situation is far from perfection.After revelations that data harvested from Facebook may have been used to try to influence Britain’s vote to leave the European Union and the United States presidential election, the social network giant faces multiple investigations in both Europe and the United States, along with potentially profit-crimping regulations and limits to its use of data. And investor retribution has been swift.Since hitting its peak on Feb. 2, Facebook has lost an astonishing $100 billion in market capitalization. Its stock was trading midweek at close to $153 a share, a decline of nearly 22 percent. (It rebounded by about 4.5 percent Thursday and closed at $159.79.)With Facebook’s plunge, investor concerns have spread to other social media and internet stocks with lofty multiples, like the so-called FANG stocks — Facebook, Apple and Amazon, Netflix and Google — and Twitter. They accounted for more than 10 percent of the S.&P. 500 at their peak.“People who own an index fund need to realize how important Facebook is, and how big a role it and the FANG stocks played in the market’s rise,” said Howard Silverblatt, senior industry analyst for the S.&P. Dow Jones Indices, who oversees statistical analysis for the S.&P. 500. “The FANG leadership is faltering. Social media hasn’t faced much regulation, and now there’s a cloud hanging over those companies.”In the midst of past Facebook euphoria, few saw this coming. One that did was Aiera, a robot that uses artificial intelligence to make stock recommendations. Aiera, an acronym for artificially intelligent equity research analyst, put out a “sell” recommendation for Facebook last fall.So did Brian Wieser, a senior analyst at Pivotal Research Group  who covers media and internet companies. Although he was positive about the stock for most of its long climb, he downgraded Facebook to “sell” last summer based on regulatory and advertiser concerns and what he now considers “systemic management issues.”Not only was it a lonely position, but “the stock went up and up,” Mr. Wieser told me this week. “But I thought the market was wrong, full stop.”“I didn’t know what the catalyst would be, but at some point revenue growth had to slow and the margins go down,” he said. “There are practical limits. And I felt investors were looking at Facebook in much too positive a light. They just ignored all the bad things, and there were a lot of them.”Then, when the news broke this month that a British firm, Cambridge Analytica, had used Facebook data for voter profiling, Mr. Wieser said, he thought it was “the most significant thing that had happened to Facebook since it became a public company.”“Most people hadn’t given much thought to how their data is used,” he added. “But this really exposed the potential abuse. This is digital advertising’s original sin, and there’s going to be a reckoning that even now I don’t think most investors fully appreciate.”The other Facebook skeptic, Aiera, can talk, but Wells Fargo — whose global internet analyst, Ken Sena, developed the robot along with Bryan Healey — wasn’t making its wunderkind available for interviews. But based on Aiera’s published comments, it issued its sell recommendation after analyzing the frequency of negative mentions in the media of Russia’s use of Facebook to influence the presidential election, as well as fundamental valuation and technical factors. (Aiera uses artificial intelligence to read and analyze a half-million pieces of data per day gleaned from the internet. It currently analyzes more than 1,600 stocks.)Wells Fargo has stressed that Aiera remains in experimental mode, but one potential advantage is that it removes all human emotion from its analysis. Thus, Aiera was indifferent to the fact that nearly every other analyst had a buy recommendation on Facebook.That included her putative master, Mr. Sena, who was thrust into the somewhat awkward position of explaining his own buy recommendation even as Aiera said sell.When I spoke to him this week, Mr. Sena stressed that Aiera was a tool that could detect patterns and eliminate bias. “Aiera said election interference was a big deal, and it turned out it was a big deal,” Mr. Sena said. “But it’s not meant to supplant human judgments.”He hasn’t changed his buy recommendation even though he agrees with Mr. Wieser that investors need to take threats of regulation seriously. “The conventional wisdom was that people don’t care that much about how their data is used,” Mr. Sena said. “They like the convenience of targeted advertising. But the level of public outcry over this is new.’’“Facebook is going to have to do a lot of explaining,’’ he added. “I believe they have the capability and the technology to make the platform secure. But it’s going to distract from other initiatives investors are counting on for growth, like virtual reality and video content.”Even so, Facebook’s decline has been so steep that even Mr. Wieser and Aiera may reassess their recommendations if they calculate that the stock has bottomed out.When he last reiterated his sell recommendation, Mr. Wieser’s price target was $152. “I don’t want to be trigger happy on this,” he said. “It’s not clear yet what happens next. I want to fine-tune my thoughts before I revisit this.”Aiera canceled her sell recommendation after the stock plunged. She hasn’t yet made a new recommendation. Of 45 analysts who cover Facebook, 41 currently have a “buy” or “overweight” recommendation, up from 39 a month ago.Mr. Sena is even more bullish on Facebook than he was before, and hasn’t changed his price target of $230. “People are still glued to Facebook and Instagram,” he said.Its price-to-earnings ratio is now just 28, barely above the market average, which makes it “the cheapest stock in our coverage area, and it has some of the best growth prospects,” he said. “There’s no way mathematically to justify a loss of more than $70 billion in market cap.”
For the past several years, Facebook has been conducting what amounts to an A/B test on human society, using two different social media apps.The first app in Facebook’s test has a maximalist design: It allows users to post lengthy status updates, with links to news articles, photos, videos and more. The app is designed as a giant megaphone, with an emphasis on public sharing and an algorithmic feed capable of sending posts rocketing around the world in seconds.The second app in the test is more minimalist, designed for intimate sharing rather than viral broadcasting. Users of this app, many of whom have private accounts with modest followings, can post photos or videos, but external links do not work and there is no re-share button, making it harder for users to amplify one another’s posts.The results of this test have been stark. The first app, Facebook, turned into a huge and unmanageable behemoth that swallowed the media industry, was exploited by hostile foreign actors, empowered autocrats, created the conditions for a global fake news epidemic and ultimately became a giant headache for its creators.The second app, Instagram, has fared much better. It hasn’t been overrun with bogus news, it hasn’t been exploited to the same degree, and most users seem happy with it — especially young users, who vastly prefer it to Facebook.Mark Zuckerberg has pledged to spend 2018 cleaning up Facebook, and ensuring that “our services aren’t just fun to use, but also good for people’s well-being.” He’s also pledged to deal with the scourge of fake news on Facebook, and do a better job of keeping bad actors at bay.Good for him. But there may be a simpler fix here. Why doesn’t he make his beleaguered blue app more like Instagram, the Facebook-owned app that isn’t destabilizing society?Last week, Facebook unveiled its latest attempt to rein in its flagship product. In an effort to curb false news, it announced it would be allowing Facebook users to rank news outlets by trustworthiness, and consider those scores when deciding which news stories to display in users’ feeds.But this kind of minor algorithmic knob-fiddling may not be enough. Instead, Facebook should consider using what it’s learned with Instagram, which it acquired in 2012, to embark on a gut renovation.If I were Mr. Zuckerberg, here are some Instagram lessons I’d be thinking about.Lesson No. 1: Emphasize visuals. De-emphasize text.First, and most obviously, Instagram is a visual medium. Photos and videos are the main event, and text, while present, is mostly confined to captions and comments. As a result, Instagram feels more intimate than Facebook, where photos and videos often sit alongside lengthy diatribes, restaurant check-ins and mundane status updates.Research has shown that, in some cases, visual platforms can be good for us. One study, published by researchers at the University of Oregon in 2016, found that the use of image-based platforms like Instagram and Snapchat was associated with lower levels of loneliness among users, and higher levels of happiness and satisfaction, while text-based platforms had no correlation with improved mental health.A heavily visual platform also makes a relatively poor conduit for breaking news and in-the-moment commentary, which might explain why Instagram often feels less exhausting than other social networks. (It also explains why last month, before I went on vacation, I deleted every social media app from my phone except Instagram — the only app I trusted not to ruin my beachside calm.)Lesson No. 2: Rethink the share button.One of Instagram’s most underrated virtues is that it has imposed structural limits on virality — the ability of a given post to spread beyond its intended audience. Unlike Twitter and Facebook, on Instagram there is no native sharing function, meaning that the reach of most Instagram posts is capped at the number of people who follow the user’s account. (There are ways to “regram” someone else’s photo using a third-party app, but they’re clunky, and relatively few people use them. Instagram also recently began showing users posts from people they don’t follow, a Facebook-inspired change that I’d argue is a mistake.)A native share button has been tremendously useful for Facebook’s and Twitter’s growth. It has also allowed upstart media organizations like BuzzFeed and Upworthy to build enormous audiences by specializing in highly shareable stories. But ease of sharing has also allowed the loudest and most emotional voices to be rewarded with clicks — and attention. It’s this incentive structure that has allowed partisans and profiteers to hijack Facebook’s algorithms and spread divisive messages and false news to millions of people.The easy virality of Facebook also seems to have made individual users more hesitant about opening up. That makes sense — it’s easier to share a selfie if you know it won’t accidentally find its way into the feeds of a million strangers.Lesson No. 3: Ban links.Instagram’s greatest structural advantage, though, may be a result of its decision to go mostly link-free. Links in Instagram captions and comments aren’t clickable, and while some users have found workarounds, the vast majority of Instagram posts aren’t meant to send users to outside websites. (The exceptions are ads, which can contain clickable links and are, not coincidentally, the most troubled part of Instagram’s platform.)The walled-garden nature of Instagram has frustrated publishers, who want to send followers out to their websites, where the publishers can earn advertising money and “control the reader experience.” (It’s really just about the money.) But Instagram has wisely refused to give in, perhaps realizing that allowing links might turn the platform into a screeching bazaar, with publishers and pages all doing circus acts for clicks.Removing links from Facebook would wreak havoc on the digital media industry, which has built an economic model around referral traffic from Facebook. It would also risk alienating some users, who enjoy promoting and discussing stories from other parts of the internet. But it would also solve some of the platform’s most vexing challenges. And ultimately, it would be better for the world.After all, malicious actors don’t post fabricated news, wildly exaggerated headlines or partisan outrage-bait on Facebook only for fun. They do it, in many cases, because it’s profitable. Take away bad actors’ incentives and they’ll go elsewhere.Banning most links doesn’t seem to have hurt Instagram as a business. It had more than 800 million monthly active users as of September, and it gained a million new advertisers last year. Facebook doesn’t break out Instagram’s revenue, but some analysts expect the app could one day generate as much as $10 billion in annual revenue. That’s still nowhere near Facebook, which earned $10 billion in revenue last quarter alone, but it’s a meaningful number, and it shows that insularity isn’t always a bad thing.Lesson No. 4: Bad actors are unavoidable, but their influence can be contained.Instagram is far from a perfect social network, and copying it wouldn’t fix all of Facebook’s problems overnight. Among other issues, some research has shown that use of Instagram can breed insecurity and bullying, and exacerbate body image issues, especially among young women.Instagram also hosts its own sketchy microeconomy — just witness the scourge of Insta-celebrities endorsing dubious health products, or the uptick in fly-by-night consumer brands that market themselves using Instagram ads.And Russian propagandists did use Instagram to try to influence American voters before the 2016 presidential election, with posts that reached as many as 20 million users. (Far less than the estimated 126 million people who were reached by Russian posts on Facebook, but a hefty number nonetheless.)But even these flaws are preferable to the structural problems that have plagued Facebook.Given the choice between a version of Facebook that made some of its users feel ugly and unpopular, and one that could be used to undermine democracies and promote misinformation around the world, I know which one I’d pick. A few billion Facebook users might agree.
Many think the issue of sexual harassment — embodied in the #MeToo movement — will work to the advantage of Democrats in upcoming elections. A mid-December NBC News/Wall Street Journal Survey gave the party a three to one advantage over Republicans on the matter. But it is hardly guaranteed to do so.Views of sexual harassment and of gender issues generally differ sharply by age, sex and partisan allegiance — all of which create substantial unpredictability. The issue has the potential to accelerate the growing discontent among well-educated white women with the Republican Party. But it could also intensify hostility to the liberal agenda among conservatives, particularly white men, many of whom view women’s complaints of discrimination as “an attempt to gain advantage” in the workplace.This complex dynamic is illuminated, for example, in the work of Kei Kawashima-Ginsberg, a psychologist at Tufts, who recently reported a growing divergence on gender issues between male and female voters under the age of 30.In her paper, “How Gender Mattered to Millennials in the 2016 Election and Beyond,” Kawashima-Ginsberg found that in an election in which allegations of harassment and abuse against Donald Trump were central, support for the Democratic nominee dropped by 15 points from 2008 to 2016 among all young men between the ages of 18 to 29 (from 62 to 47 percent) and by 6 points among all women (from 69 to 63 percent). At the same time, turnout among young white men, many of whom supported Trump, shot up significantly.“2016 saw the greatest number of votes cast by young white men in the past 12 years — markedly higher than their female counterparts,” Kawashima-Ginsberg wrote.Emily Ekins, director of polling at the libertarian Cato Institute, also sees pitfalls for Democrats. In an email, she noted that the #MeToo movement and accompanying protests have the potential to make gender issues more important than economics in 2018 and 2020.That development, Ekins argues,Ekins cited a survey she helped conduct for the nonpartisan Democracy Fund Voter Study Group which found that Democratic men are far less likely than Democratic womenIn addition, the survey found that 64 percent of Democratic women strongly disagreed with the statement “When women demand equality these days, they are actually seeking special favors,” compared with 51 percent of Democratic men and 35 percent of all those polled.In a demonstration of the potential political liability of the issues swirling around identity politics and political correctness, a Cato 2017 Free Speech and Tolerance Survey found that a bare majority (51 percent) of Democrats believes that calling out sexism is typically justified and not designed to shut off discussion. In sharp contrast, Ekins wrote,Notably, 47 percent of Democrats agreed with Republicans and independents that accusations of sexism are used to silence opponents. The partisan divide over sexual harassment is stark. A December 2017 Quinnipiac University national poll asked the question:Among all voters, 66 percent said they would “definitely” not vote for the candidate while 24 percent said they would “consider” voting for the candidate. So far so good. Democrats, however, were 84-10 against the candidate and independents were also opposed, 73-19. A plurality of Republicans, 48 percent, said they would consider the candidate, and 34 percent said they would not. Crucially, among Republican men, 56 percent said they would consider voting for the candidate and 29 percent said they would not.In an email, Alex Castellanos, a veteran Republican media consultant and Trump loyalist, put forward his view of why Trump and his supporters are immune to the attacks of the #MeToo movement:Castellanos continued, heating up his rhetoric:Musa al-Gharbi, a fellow in sociology at Columbia, sees the possibility of backlash from voters — such as those Castellanos describes — who are angered or offended by the #MeToo movement. Al-Gharbi emailed me:In an essay in Salon in May 2016 that contended that Trump’s path to victory was much easier than conventional wisdom had it, Al-Gharbi argued that Democrats andThe issue of sexual harassment is a useful tool to mobilize Democratic voters in liberal states and districts, according to Leonie Huddy, a political scientist at Stonybrook, but, like Al-Gharbi, Huddy thinks that such tactics should be deployed with caution:Huddy warned specifically against Democrats adopting “a singular focus on harassment and gender issues” given the 2016 election outcome:More important, according to Huddy,In a recent paper, “Trending Towards Traditionalism? Changes in Youths’ Gender Ideology,” two sociologists, Joanna Pepin, of the University of Maryland, and David Cotter, of Union College, found evidence of a retrenchment on key gender issues among the young.Using polls of high school seniors over the past 40 years — conducted by the Monitoring The Future project at the University of Michigan’s Survey Research Center — Pepin and Cotter documented a shift on two key questions: “It is usually better for everyone involved if the man is the achiever outside the home and the woman takes care of the home and family” and “the husband should make all the important decisions in the family.” The accompanying chart shows the trend line on both of those questions.I asked Pepin and Cotter about the significance of their findings for the #MeToo movement. Cotter emailed back:On the optimistic side for Democrats, Cotter wrote,On the pessimistic side, Cotter argues,R. Marie Griffith, a professor of religion and politics at Washington University in St. Louis and the author of the recently published book, “Moral Combat: How Sex Divided American Christians and Fractured American Politics,” raised another question in an email:Putting those qualifications aside, Griffith argues that “it certainly appears that women’s #MeToo fury is a powerful force with no sign of ebbing,” adding, “but my God, anything could happen between now and then, couldn’t it!? Still, my money’s on them for this year and, if I had to bet that far in advance, probably for 2020 too.”Cindy Kam, a political scientist at Vanderbilt, argued in an email that sexual harassment is currently “more of a cultural conflict focusing on how people think women (and men) should be treated and should treat each other,” and has not yet emerged as a full-fledged electoral issue.She notes thatTurning toward upcoming elections, Kam makes the case thatCelinda Lake, a Democratic pollster and an expert on the politics of gender, is more optimistic about a positive payoff for Democrats than either Kam or Griffith. In an email, Lake argued that the issue of sexual harassment will motivate young and unmarried women to vote, that it has already helped restore Democratic loyalty among college-educated women and that it will improve prospects for women running for office.For many women, according to Lake, “there is a continuum from sexual assault to sexual harassment to bad social and dating behavior,” all of which can help motivate female voters.William Galston, a senior fellow at Brookings, also sees benefits flowing to Democrats from the #MeToo movement. In a Jan. 10 paper titled “Data point to a new wave of female political activism that could shift the course of US politics,” Galston writes:In terms of evaluating the political consequences of the #MeToo movement, Charles Franklin, director of the Marquette Law School Poll, emailed me to say that in the December Wall Street Journal/NBC survey, sexual harassment and #MeToo “ranks 6th, behind shootings, natural disasters, Trump, tax bill, and terrorist attacks” in voters’ listing of the most important issue.“That seems well behind the level of media attention the issue has received,” Franklin notes.There are at least two possible developments that could substantially increase the attention paid to the issue of sexual harassment.The first is Kirsten Gillibrand’s potential presidential candidacy. Gillibrand has taken the lead on the matter of sexual misconduct, declaring that “enough is enough” in a Dec. 6 Facebook post:The second possible development is a Democratic takeover of the House or the Senate (or both) in the 2018 midterms. With majority control of either branch, Democrats would have the power to keep Republicans on the defensive and to set the issue agenda so as to maximize the benefits and minimize the costs of gender polarization.Poll data highlights the volatility of public opinion on matters of sexual behavior. Antithetical conclusions can be drawn depending on the questions asked. For example, a December 2017 Pew Poll found that a solid majority of adults, 66-28, believe sexual misconduct allegations “reflect widespread problems in society” as opposed to “individual misconduct.” Republicans agreed, 61-34. At the same time, in the same month, an Economist-YouGov survey found that a majority of Republicans, 59-41, believe that “false accusations of sexual assault” are a bigger problem than sexual assaults that go unreported and unpunished.A third poll in December, by PerryUndem, a public policy research firm, asked voters if they were “upset” by Trump’s Access Hollywood remarks. Most people — 61 percent — said they were. However, 65 percent of Republican men said they were not. Lining up on the same side, 54 percent of Republican women said that “many women interpret innocent remarks as sexist.” A far smaller number, 25 percent, of Democratic women agreed.This contrast appears in question after question. Sixty-four percent of Democratic women say that they feel more unsafe after the election, compared with 14 percent of Republican women.In other words, what looks like a favorable climate now for Democrats is in fact highly volatile, particularly when the man in the White House likes to set bonfires.
On March 16, as the buzzer sounded in perhaps the worst upset in N.C.A.A. tournament history, and my beloved University of Virginia went down to the 16th-seeded University of Maryland, Baltimore County, I had one thought: I need to deactivate my Facebook account. I did not want to endure the taunts and trash talk of my friends who cheer for Duke.I do this often. When I need to focus on a project or relax a bit, I turn off the noise that comes from Facebook — the constant stream of disturbing faces, angry comments and shallow pulls on my precious attention. I also lose the lovely pictures of puppies and babies. But sometimes it’s worth it to retreat from the addictive torrent of stimuli framed in blue.If you feel the same way about how Facebook affects your daily life, by all means suspend or even delete your account (not that Facebook makes it easy to). But don’t pretend it will make a difference to Facebook or to the state of the world.A Twitter movement known as #DeleteFacebook is motivated by the stream of terrible things that Facebook has been involved in, including the proliferation of hate speech, harassment and propaganda meant to undermine trust in democratic institutions. The final spark was the news that the British political data firm Cambridge Analytica had acquired Facebook data on 50 million Americans.But even if tens of thousands of Americans quit Facebook tomorrow, the company would barely feel it. Facebook has more than 2.1 billion users worldwide. Its growth has plateaued in the United States, but the service is gaining millions of new users outside North America every week. Like most global companies, Facebook focuses its attention on markets like India, Egypt, Indonesia, the Philippines, Brazil and Mexico. At current rates of growth, it could reach three billion users by 2020.People in those countries are getting value out of Facebook; in some places, it’s one of the few reliable ways to keep in touch. In much of the developing world, Facebook is also the only news source that matters. This should horrify us. But it’s not a problem that will be solved by indignant Americans leaving the service.Moreover, quitting Facebook lets Google and Twitter off the hook. It lets AT&T and Comcast and its peers off the hook. The dangers of extremist propaganda and hate speech are just as grave on YouTube, which is owned by Google. Russian agents undermining trust in institutions and democracy are even more visible on Twitter. And every major telecommunications firm, as well as Google and Twitter, relies on surveillance systems similar to the one Facebook uses to run targeted advertising. Facebook is bigger and better at all of this than the others, but its problems are not unique.Facebook’s problems are not peripheral, not just some rough edges that can be sanded down. Its core functions are to deploy its algorithms to amplify content that generates strong emotional responses among its users, and then convert what it learns about our interests and desires into targeted ads. This is what makes Facebook Facebook. This is also what makes Facebook such an effective vehicle for promoting so much garbage and what makes it the most pervasive personal surveillance system in the world. As long as that’s true, don’t expect Facebook to fix itself.Hope lies, instead, with our power as citizens. We must demand that legislators and regulators get tougher. They should go after Facebook on antitrust grounds. Facebook is by far the dominant social platform in the United States, with 68 percent of American adults using it, according to the Pew Research Center. That means Facebook can gobble up potential competitors, as it already has with Instagram, and crowd out upstarts in fields such as artificial intelligence and virtual reality.The Department of Justice should consider severing WhatsApp, Instagram and Messenger from Facebook, much as it broke up AT&T in 1982. That breakup unleashed creativity, improved phone service and lowered prices. It also limited the political power of AT&T.The European Union has already stepped up its legal efforts to protect data. Its General Data Protection Regulation, which goes into effect in May, is intended to ensure that users understand and consent to data collection and how that data is used. Users won’t have to agree to give access to their data to start using a product.As with some recent American consumer finance regulations, data collection policies under the new European Union rules must be clear, concise and in plain language. Companies will have to declare up front how they will use the data, and users can withdraw consent at any time. This should significantly deter many abuses that companies like Facebook and Google have committed. It won’t repair the sins of the past. But it’s something.Regulatory interventions have limitations. As long as Facebook is big and rich, its algorithms will determine and distort much of what we read and watch. Our long-term agenda should be to bolster institutions that foster democratic deliberation and the rational pursuit of knowledge. These include scientific organizations, universities, libraries, museums, newspapers and civic organizations. They have all been enfeebled over recent years as our resources and attention have shifted to the tiny addictive devices in our hands.If we act together as citizens to champion these changes, we have a chance to curb the problems that Facebook has amplified. If we act as disconnected, indignant moral agents, we surrender the only power we have: the power to think and act collectively. We could even use Facebook to mount campaigns to rein in Facebook. It is, after all, a powerful tool for motivation, even if it’s a terrible tool for deliberation.So go ahead and quit Facebook if it makes you feel calmer or more productive. Please realize, though, that you might be offloading problems onto those who may have less opportunity to protect privacy and dignity and are more vulnerable to threats to democracy. If the people who care the most about privacy, accountability and civil discourse evacuate Facebook in disgust, the entire platform becomes even less informed and diverse. Deactivation is the opposite of activism.
Sarah Peveler lacks a support system that many older people count on: their adult children.But Ms. Peveler, 71, who is divorced and childless, said she was determined not to let fear of an uncertain future get the best of her.To help avoid the potential perils of a solitary old age, Ms. Peveler is carrying out a multipronged, go-it-alone plan. A key part of it was to find a small community where she could make friends and walk nearly everywhere, without worrying about the hazards of ice and snow.A friend from North Carolina suggested that she look at Tarboro, in the eastern part of the state, about 75 miles from Raleigh. The city of 11,400 filled the bill, and she moved there several years before retiring in 2012 from her job as an executive at a Philadelphia-based nonprofit.“At some point, I am not going to be able to drive,” she said. From her downtown home, “I can walk to Main Street, the library, the church, the drugstore and the Piggly Wiggly.”Ms. Peveler paid $135,000 cash for a one-story house with longevity in mind. One of the three bedrooms, she said, can be converted into an apartment if she needs a caretaker to move in. She is thinking of checking out assisted-living facilities in case she ever needs more than home care. (There is a family history of dementia, she said.) Several mini-strokes caused some cognitive impairment, so her doctor monitors her regularly.With a brother on the West Coast and no nieces or nephews to step in, Ms. Peveler has, through her church and several civic activities, developed a surrogate family of friends and neighbors, many of them several decades younger, who keep tabs on her. For added protection, she signed up for a service, EyeOn App, that signals three friends if she does not reply within a half-hour to scheduled alerts on her cellphone.“Once, I didn’t respond, and everyone called me,” she said. “My next-door neighbor sent her daughter over.”Although no plan is foolproof, Ms. Peveler said she was as confident as she could be. “I know people would have my back,” she said.Ms. Peveler is among a growing number of older Americans who are unmarried and childless. By 2030, about 16 percent of women 80 to 84 will be childless, compared with about 12 percent in 2010, according to a 2013 report by AARP.While Ms. Peveler is trying to control the risks of aging alone, many so-called elder orphans may not fare as well. Older single and childless people are at higher risk than those with children for facing medical problems, cognitive decline and premature death, according to a 2016 study led by Dr. Maria Torroella Carney, chief of geriatric and palliative medicine at the Northwell Health system on Long Island. The study noted that about 22 percent of people 65 and older either are childless or have children who are not in contact.Adult children typically help elderly parents negotiate housing, social-service and health care options. Without such a fallback, elder orphans can reduce their risks by building their own support structures, Dr. Carney said.“People who are aging alone need to make plans when they are independent and functional,” she said. “They need to learn about the resources in the community and the appropriate time to start using them.” Those services could include senior-friendly housing and the growing number of home-delivered products and services aimed at the aging-solo market, such as healthy meals and doctors who make house calls, she said.One of the first steps childless people should take is to hire an elder law lawyer, who can draw up documents that will protect them if they become incapacitated. Childless people typically turn to a friend, a lawyer, clergy, or a niece or nephew to make medical decisions, according to experts. A bank’s trust unit can take on financial tasks, with a friend, a relative or a lawyer monitoring the bank’s decisions.Christina Lesher, an elder law lawyer in Houston, suggests appointing a “micro board,” which includes the lawyer, the health care and financial agents, an accountant and a geriatric care manager. “The board can step in if a client cannot make decisions,” Ms. Lesher said. The client could assign a network of friends and neighbors to call the lawyer in an emergency or if they notice any cognitive decline.As for housing, Dr. Carney recommends that people aging alone consider a senior-friendly “congregate living” arrangement. Besides offering a variety of services, such housing can lessen isolation, which her research shows can lead to physical and cognitive decline. If that is not possible, she said, elder orphans should move closer to shopping, medical care, recreation and senior support services.One housing option with a built-in support system is a continuing care retirement community. Residents usually start in an independent living unit and, depending on the care needed, move to an on-site assisted-living unit or a skilled-nursing facility. Entrance and monthly fees tend to be hefty, however. Typical entry fees range from just over $100,000 to more than $400,000 while monthly services fees can range from $2,000 to $4,000, according to MyLifeSite, which tracks the pricing and financial information of more than 800 C.C.R.C.s.With no one to oversee their care, elder orphans who want to remain in their own homes for as long as possible could enlist a geriatric care manager, who monitors elderly clients and coordinates care.In Washington, D.C., clients of Iona Senior Services, for example, can arrange for a care manager to be on call as their health deteriorates, said Deborah Rubenstein, director of consultation, care management and counseling programs. If a client is discharged from a hospital, for example, the care manager, in consultation with the designated health care agent, would arrange for rehabilitation or home care, she said.“More and more people were coming to us and saying, ‘I’m O.K. now, but I’m realistic enough to know my health status could change,’” Ms. Rubenstein said. Iona charges $150 an hour.Meanwhile, a growing number of volunteer neighborhood groups are providing both social connections and practical help to older people who are at home alone. More than 200 organizations in the Village to Village Network, including “villages” in the New York area, provide rides to medical appointments, snow removal, home repairs and computer support. Villages in 150 additional neighborhoods are in development. Tax-deductible membership fees can range from $100 to $400.Entrepreneurs and companies, many nationwide, are moving into the so-called longevity market. On-demand services, accessible by a phone app or a computer, can connect people to personal assistants and food delivery.“The on-demand marketplace will be the best friend of elder orphans,” said Mary Furlong, a Silicon Valley consultant to companies that cater to seniors.For example, the ride-hailing service Lyft is working with health care systems and retirement communities to provide rides to nonemergency medical appointments and other destinations. And because financial acuity often declines with age, childless singles can enroll in a service such as EverSafe, which monitors accounts for unusual spending and alerts the client or a trusted advocate of possible fraud.In-home technology, like medication reminders, also can help people live alone safely longer, experts say. Besides her EyeOn home-monitoring system, Ms. Peveler uses an Amazon Alexa device.“If I am reading a recipe, I can tell her what to put on a shopping list,” said Ms. Peveler, who has a harder time remembering some details since her mini-strokes. And just for fun, she may tell Alexa “to make cat noises, and one of my cats goes nuts.”For those aging solo, expanding a social network is essential, according to experts on aging. Two years ago, Carol Marak, who is in her mid-60s and lives alone in Dallas, started the Elder Orphan Facebook Group.“I wanted a place to feel less lonely and to connect with others in the same situation,” said Ms. Marak, who is also the spokeswoman for SeniorCare.com, a site that provides information on local care options. About 6,500 childless singles, mostly women, are members, she said.Ms. Marak said she was struck by the number of members who worried about being “isolated and disconnected from the community.” She said she was trying hard to create her own social connections. She moved from a suburban house to a downtown condominium building, where she is making new friends. And she has organized brunches for Dallas members of the Facebook page.Determined to stay healthy for as long as possible, Ms. Marak said she walks six miles a day and eats mostly vegan meals. “I need to keep stronger because I am totally responsible for myself,” she said.
Few white-collar defendants have been more reviled than the man known as the Pharma Bro, Martin Shkreli, even before he was convicted on multiple counts of securities fraud. The Atlantic called him “the perfect and very hateable combination of arrogance, youth, and avarice,” after he gained notoriety for acquiring the rights to generic drugs for rare diseases and then jacking up the prices.Ben Brafman, Mr. Shkreli’s defense lawyer, told me this week that in his four decades of representing high-profile clients, he’d never encountered so many potential jurors who asked to be excused because they didn’t think they could give his client a fair hearing. “I’ve represented people charged with murder and dismemberment, and jurors didn’t bat an eye,” he said. “In Martin’s case, they asked to be excused because they hated him.”Mr. Shkreli was convicted of fraud for his activities at two hedge funds he ran, not for anything related to drug pricing. Mr. Brafman argued that Mr. Shkreli eventually repaid all of his investors, and some realized large gains. Still, a jury ultimately found Mr. Shkreli guilty on three counts — acquitting him on five others — and this month he was sentenced to seven years in prison.In stark contrast, Elizabeth Holmes, the founder of the Silicon Valley blood-testing start-up Theranos, was one of the most lauded members of her young generation. By the time she turned 30, she’d been the subject of glowing magazine profiles and flattering cover photos, the recipient of an honorary degree from Pepperdine University, and a member of the board of fellows of Harvard Medical School.She was the youngest recipient of the Horatio Alger award in recognition of “remarkable achievements accomplished through honesty, hard work, self-reliance and perseverance over adversity.”Forbes put her on the cover of its 2015 survey of the 400 richest Americans and estimated her net worth at $4.5 billion.Last week, the Securities and Exchange Commission accused Ms. Holmes  and the company’s former president of masterminding a “massive fraud” at Theranos. The complaint describes an elaborate edifice of false statements through which the two “deceived investors” into believing Theranos’s unique technology could perform comprehensive tests on a single drop of blood.Among the more brazen falsehoods peddled to potential investors: that Theranos technology was used by the Defense Department in Afghanistan and on medevac helicopters, and that the company’s revenue in 2014 was $108 million and was “on track” to generate $1 billion in 2015.In fact, Theranos technology was “never deployed” on the battlefield in Afghanistan, “or on medevac helicopters,” the S.E.C. said. Theranos’s revenue in 2014 was barely $100,000, “nowhere near” $100 million, the agency said, and the $1 billion projection was a fantasy that “had no basis” in reality.Ms. Holmes settled the S.E.C.’s charges without admitting or denying them. She is barred from being an officer or director of any public company for 10 years and agreed to pay a fine of $500,000. Though she lost voting control of Theranos, a private company, she remains chairman and chief executive.She could still face criminal charges. It’s unusual, though not unprecedented, for the S.E.C. to settle a case while a criminal investigation is underway. (The United States attorney’s office in San Francisco has declined to comment on whether it is investigating potential criminal charges; in a note to outside partners in 2016, the company said that the Justice Department had requested documents and that an investigation was active.)Still, the relatively lenient treatment she’s gotten so far, compared with Mr. Shkreli’s seven-year prison term, provokes the question: Is this fair?“I don’t have any connection to the case, but from reading the S.E.C.’s complaint, the allegations are of a nature that prosecutors would typically pursue to determine if criminal charges can be brought,” said Antonia M. Apps, a former federal prosecutor and partner at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy who teaches a course on white-collar crime at Harvard Law School. “It’s outright fraud.”John C. Coffee Jr., a professor at Columbia Law School who teaches classes on white-collar crime, agreed that “it appears a lot of people were defrauded.” But he said he would not be surprised to see a plea bargain or even a deferred prosecution agreement, in which Ms. Holmes could avoid a prison term, especially if she cooperates with prosecutors.“Typically you get more sympathy from the criminal justice system if you’re an attractive young woman than a brash, arrogant young male,” he said.Mr. Coffee and other lawyers I spoke to cautioned that, because she settled the S.E.C.’s charges, the public hasn’t heard her defense. When more facts emerge, her case may be more complex than it now appears. But on the face of the S.E.C.’s complaint, Mr. Shkreli’s crimes pale in comparison.At the heart of both cases are lies: At Mr. Shkreli’s sentencing, federal Judge Kiyo A. Matsumoto referred to Mr. Shkreli’s “egregious multitude of lies,” and the same might be said of Ms. Holmes. But the financial consequences of her deceptions were in another league.Judge Matsumoto said it didn’t matter that Mr. Shkreli later repaid the investors he defrauded, or that some of his investors made millions. Still, the magnitude of the fraud was just over $10 million.Theranos’s was far greater. According to the S.E.C. complaint, from 2013 to 2015 Theranos used false claims to raise more than $700 million from investors. By late last year, Theranos was “on the verge of bankruptcy,” the S.E.C. said.Mr. Shkreli’s victims were mostly wealthy individuals, presumably sophisticated investors. Many of Ms. Holmes’ victims were, too; they included the media magnate Rupert Murdoch and Larry Ellison, the billionaire co-founder of Oracle. But she also attracted venture capital funds whose investors included pension funds and endowments, affecting thousands of ordinary Americans.In comparison to Mr. Shkreli’s fraud, the Holmes allegations “are really a different order of magnitude,” Ms. Apps said.But the reactions of Ms. Holmes and Mr. Shkreli to the charges are also wildly divergent — a factor that may ultimately determine whether Ms. Holmes is charged, and, if convicted, whether she ends up in prison.Both Ms. Holmes and Mr. Shkreli courted celebrity and seemed to revel in media attention. But in Mr. Shkreli’s case, that impulse seemed only to intensify once he was charged.Mr. Shkreli repeatedly defied Mr. Brafman’s admonitions to keep quiet and avoid the limelight. He smirked through his trial, taunted prosecutors as the “junior varsity,” called the case a “witch hunt” and was suspended by Twitter after he threatened to have sex with a freelance journalist who covered him. His bail was revoked and he was imprisoned after he offered a $5,000 bounty in a Facebook post for a strand of Hillary Clinton’s hair — a “solicitation to assault,” Judge Matsumoto ruled.In theory, Mr. Shkreli’s well-publicized bizarre antics, both in and out of court, should have had no bearing on his guilt or sentence. As Mr. Brafman put it in his opening statement, Mr. Shkreli shouldn’t be found guilty for being “odd,” “weird,” or having a “dysfunctional personality.” But prosecutors cited his behavior to assert in closing arguments that he “had no respect for the law.” At his sentencing, Judge Matsumoto suggested his actions called into question whether his purported remorse was genuine.“I’ve never had a client who did more to hurt his own standing with the court than Martin Shkreli,” Mr. Brafman said. His behavior and comments “probably added several years to his sentence.”So far, Ms. Holmes has followed the traditional route of the contrite potential defendant: She has maintained a low profile and said nothing to provoke the government or prosecutors.After the S.E.C. settlement, Ms. Holmes made no comment. In keeping with that strategy, John Dwyer, the Palo Alto, Calif., lawyer representing her, declined to comment for this column. Theranos issued a statement stressing that she had “cooperated with the S.E.C. throughout its investigation” and said its independent directors were “pleased to be bringing this matter to a close.”
I am a multiracial woman from a small family that is otherwise white. A close relative is in hospice care. My family made it clear that they expect me, my (immigrant) husband and our young son to visit him before he dies. But this relative has become active in alt-right causes, posting offensive material about minorities, immigrants and women on Facebook. Some family members have asked me to “leave politics at the door” and “turn the other cheek.” Others threatened to ostracize us if we don’t visit. Should I?A.S.Ignore your relatives’ claptrap. Leaving politics at the door is easy — so long as it’s not your race, husband or gender being trampled inside its threshold. And have you noticed that requests to “turn the other cheek” are most popular with folks asking us to turn ours, but rarely their own? Finally, the threat of ostracism (a.k.a. bullying) is ridiculous. Who needs relatives that turn off and on like spigots?No, the only reason to make a pilgrimage to see this problematic relative is if the man ever treated you with love and kindness — even as a child. If he did, you have at least one thing to weigh against the hate-mongering of his later days. It may not be enough for you, and I would respect that too, but it’s something to keep in mind.The other consideration is the suffering of his immediate kin. If you have a tender impulse toward them, in what is surely a terrible time, I can envision a farewell visit that is made for their sake and not for the dying man’s. There are a few moving pieces here, even putting aside your relatives’ sillier claims. Think about it, and wherever you land is the right answer (for you).A close friend who was in my wedding party and his then-girlfriend came to my wedding without giving us a gift. Now, two years later, this couple is getting married. My wife and I cannot agree how to handle the situation. Should we address the situation directly with our friends or just give them a wedding gift?ANONYMOUSThe cost of being a groomsman can range from several hundred to several thousand dollars, depending on clothing requirements, wedding locations and bachelor parties — or worse, bachelor-party weekends. In this context, it is probably not factually correct to say your friend gave you nothing. (And speaking for a tiny subset of the universe: I don’t want to be in anyone’s wedding — ever! Factor that in, too.)My advice: Peruse your pal’s wedding registry, choose a lovely gadget from Williams Sonoma, and stop nursing wounds from two years ago. A “close friend” is worth much more than a blender — especially if he shows up for you on your big days.Years ago, I lent my friend an expensive handbag. (It cost more than a car.) We agreed that I would ask for it back when I wanted it. Two years later, I asked for it back. She told me her sister borrowed it and lost it. I was extremely annoyed but let it go. Later, I ran into the sister. When I asked how she lost the bag, she said she had no idea what I was talking about. Since then, I saw my friend wearing the bag at an event. She lied to me! I asked for the bag immediately, and have reiterated the request several times since then, but she always puts me off. What should I do?S.L.Undoubtedly, it is hard to learn that a pal values your handbag more highly than you. (At least it’s expensive!) Fortunately, I own a plate by the artist John Derian with an old handwritten note from the Algonquin Hotel decoupaged on it. It contains the perfect advice for your predicament: “Please don’t make me make trouble for you in trying to get my things back. I shall not write you again myself and will give you the rest of this week to return them.” After sending a version of this note, and waiting said week, turn over the matter of the automobile-priced purse to the local police.I have a 9-month-old daughter. Sometimes, when we are out, strangers ask to take her picture. I feel awkward about this and would prefer they didn’t. But how can I express this without offending someone who just told me how cute my baby is?MEIThe same way I did, last week, when a woman approached my table in a restaurant and asked if she could photograph my fluke tartare to post on Instagram. I smiled and said: “Thank you for asking. But I’d rather you didn’t.” She looked confused but left eventually. We have no duty to cater to strangers with cameras.Until your daughter is old enough to make her own modeling decisions, you must make them for her, governed by her best interests, not the (sort of understandable) desire to avoid momentary awkwardness with utter strangers and their creepy requests. It’s the job, Mom!
In 2007, a young Mark Zuckerberg stood on a stage in San Francisco and announced that Facebook was throwing open its doors.No longer, he said, would Facebook be a closed-off software product like every other social network. Instead, it would become an open platform and invite outside developers to build apps and programs on top of it.“We want to make Facebook into something of an operating system,” Mr. Zuckerberg told a reporter.At the time, the announcement drew little notice outside the programming world. Developers quickly went to work making fun and quirky apps that plugged into Facebook — early hits included “Rendezbook,” a kind of proto-Tinder that allowed users to match with each other for “random flings,” and CampusRank, which allowed college students to nominate their peers for yearbook-type awards.Later, popular games like FarmVille arrived, and apps like Tinder and Spotify began allowing their users to log in using their Facebook credentials. In some ways, it was a fair trade. Facebook got to weave itself more deeply into users’ internet habits, and the outside app developers got access to a big audience and valuable data about their users. In all, millions of apps have been created with Facebook’s open platform tools.Through it all, Facebook’s users were mostly unfazed. Sure, these apps collected data about their lives. But they seemed convenient and harmless, and, really, what could go wrong?Today, more than a decade later, the consequences of Facebook’s laissez-faire approach are becoming clear. Over the weekend, The New York Times reported that Cambridge Analytica, a British consulting firm, improperly acquired the private data of about roughly 50 million Facebook users, and used it to target voters on behalf of the Trump campaign during the 2016 presidential election.What happened with Cambridge Analytica wasn’t technically a data breach, since this trove of personal information wasn’t stolen from Facebook’s servers. Rather, it was given away freely to the maker of a Facebook personality quiz app called “thisisyourdigitallife.”That app, which was developed by a University of Cambridge professor, collected data about the 270,000 people who installed it, along with data about their Facebook friends, totaling 50 million people in all. The professor, Aleksandr Kogan, then gave the data he had harvested to Cambridge Analytica.Technically, only this last step violated Facebook’s rules, which prohibit selling or giving away data collected by a third-party app. The rest was business as usual. Third-party apps collect vast amounts of detailed personal information about Facebook users every day, including their ages, location, pages they’ve liked and groups they belong to. Users can opt out of sharing specific pieces of information, but it’s unclear how many do.This kind of broad data collection is not only allowed but encouraged by Facebook, which wants to keep developers happily building on top of its platform. Permissiveness is a feature, as they say, not a bug.But in the wake of incidents like the data leak to Cambridge Analytica, some are questioning the costs of such loose policies on an influential platform with 2.2 billion registered users.“It seems insane that you can make haphazard decisions about so many people’s data,” said Can Duruk, a technology consultant and software engineer. Facebook, he said, was “extremely lax with what kind of data they allowed people to get.”In a Facebook post on Monday, Andrew Bosworth, a Facebook vice president, admitted that that thinking may have been a mistake.“We thought that every app could be social,” Mr. Bosworth wrote. “Your calendar should have your events and your friends birthdays, your maps should know where your friends live, your address book should show their pictures. It was a reasonable vision but it didn’t materialize the way we had hoped.”An early clue about the potential for misuse of Facebook’s third-party developer tools came in 2010 when my colleague Emily Steel, then at The Wall Street Journal, reported that an online tracking company, RapLeaf, was collecting and reselling data it had gathered from third-party Facebook apps to marketing firms and political consultants. In response, Facebook cut off RapLeaf’s data access and said it would “dramatically limit” the misuse of its users’ personal information by outside parties.But preventing data-hungry developers from exploiting Facebook’s treasure trove of personal information remained challenging. In 2015, Facebook removed the ability of third-party developers to collect detailed information about the friends of users who had installed an app, citing privacy concerns. (Cambridge Analytica’s data trove, which included this type of information, was gathered in 2014, before the change.) Facebook has also taken away tools used by developers to create games and quizzes that barraged users with annoying notifications.But the core functions of Facebook’s open platform tool are still intact. There are still many third-party apps like “thisisyourdigitallife” out there, vacuuming up intimate data about Facebook users. That data doesn’t disappear, and Facebook has no real recourse to stop it from falling into the wrong hands.Not all open data access is used irresponsibly. Researchers and nongovernmental organizations have used Facebook’s third-party development tools to respond to natural disasters. And many of the functions that internet users depend on — for example, the ability to import their digital address books into a new messaging app — are possible thanks only to the tools that allow for third-party development known as application programming interfaces, or A.P.I.s.“Everything we depend on uses A.P.I.s,” said Kin Lane, a software engineer who maintains a website called API Evangelist. “They’re in your home, in your business, in your car. It’s how these platforms innovate and do cool, interesting things.”In Facebook’s case, permissive data policies were also good for business. Third-party developers built millions of apps on top of Facebook’s platform, giving Facebook users more reasons to spend time on the site and generating more ad revenue for the company. Restricting access to data would limit Facebook’s usefulness to developers and could drive them to build on a rival platform instead, making those products better.In this context, it’s even less surprising that Dr. Kogan and Cambridge Analytica were able to use a silly personality quiz to collect information about millions of Americans. After all, why else would the quiz be there?
 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• More than a decade ago, Facebook opened itself to the world, inviting developers to build apps and programs on top of the social network’s platform.Millions of third-party apps have been created since then, and the consequences of Facebook’s loose approach to the collection of user data are becoming clear, our tech columnist writes.As Facebook grapples with questions about its role in the spread of disinformation, the company’s chief information security officer is said to be leaving. The executive, Alex Stamos, had pushed for more transparency but met resistance from other senior leaders, according to current and former employees.• Cambridge Analytica, the political data firm that harvested information from more than 50 million Facebook profiles, also sought to entrap politicians with sex or bribes, according to an investigation in Britain that included a journalist posing as a prospective client.• A male student opened fire at a high school in Southern Maryland today, injuring two students and exchanging gunfire with an officer at the school, the police said. The suspect was later confirmed dead.• The shooting comes just over a month after 14 students and three adults were killed at a high school in Parkland, Fla.• Last year, we wrote about how Arizona’s promise to keep the self-driving car industry free of regulations attracted dozens of companies, including Lyft, Uber and Waymo.That lack of oversight is among the factors under scrutiny after an autonomous car operated by Uber  killed a woman in Tempe, Ariz. It is believed to be the first pedestrian death associated with self-driving technology on a public road.• Supporters say the cars will ultimately be safer than regular vehicles because they take easily distracted humans out of the equation. But the relatively new technology is only starting to experience the unpredictable situations that drivers can face.• The authorities are trying to determine whether a package that exploded early today at a FedEx distribution center near San Antonio was linked to four recent bombings in Austin.The latest explosion, in Schertz, Tex., lightly injured one employee, law enforcement officials said. The package was addressed to an Austin destination, according to local news reports.• A “serial bomber”  is being sought in Austin after a string of explosions that have killed two people and wounded four.• For weeks, the international news media has shown images of wounded children and throngs of refugees fleeing the Syrian military’s offensive in a rebel-held suburb of Damascus.This week, the government hit back with videos showing President Bashar al-Assad visiting the area to congratulate his forces and to greet cheering residents.• Our correspondent reports: “Mr. Assad delivered an alternative view of the war, one in which he is assured and in charge, casually cruising past bombed-out buildings, often driving with just two fingers, an elbow propped casually out the window. It is a world in which his opponents are all terrorists and his troops all heroes.”• The chaotic five-month effort to keep the Weinstein Company afloat has ended.The Hollywood studio filed for bankruptcy protection on Monday, and said it released anyone “who suffered or witnessed any form of sexual misconduct by Harvey Weinstein” from nondisclosure agreements.• Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, is facing requests from several countries for exemptions from steel and aluminum tariffs.• After we published an article on tipping and the power imbalance it creates between customers and servers, hundreds of readers wrote in with their own experiences — on both sides of the equation.• U.S. stocks were down on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Fun fact: The shape of your ear affects the way you hear.• Why it’s so hard to invest with a social conscience.• Recipe of the day: Fried chicken on a weeknight? Yes, you can.• “You don’t have to be tech savvy to understand how much information Facebook has about you, everything you like, everything you share, and everyone you know. This BuzzFeed piece is a fast, easy primer, with a headline that says it all: ‘3 Simple Ways We Give Up a Ton of Very Personal Information to Facebook and Random Apps.’ ” — Alan Henry, Smarter Living editor• “How does it feel to be a problem?” W. E. B. Du Bois asked. Our briefings and What We’re Reading editor, Andrea Kannapell, recommends The Atlantic’s revival of the civil rights activist’s meditations on the question in 1897. (The animation is accompanied by a computer voice that, strangely, adds to its eloquence.)• Warning before ambush in NigerThe leader of an ill-fated team of American soldiers had said they were unprepared to carry out a mission that turned into a deadly ambush last fall, according to preliminary findings of a Defense Department investigation.• Back to the CaribbeanSix months on, how are the islands recovering from the devastation wrought by Hurricanes Irma and Maria?To find out, our Travel writers spent time in Dominica, St. John, St. Martin and Puerto Rico, including San Juan.• Subway gets a flunking gradeNew York City’s system slid to a new low point in January, with just 58.1 percent of all weekday trains arriving at stations on time.• Women’s N.C.A.A. basketball Central Michigan, a No. 11 seed, stunned No. 3 Ohio State to earn a first trip to the round of 16. Here are Monday’s scores.• Best of late-night TVStephen Colbert reacted to the news that 50 million Facebook users weren’t notified that their personal information had been retrieved by a political-data firm: “Really? The one time I actually would have wanted a Facebook alert.”• Quotation of the day“Tuberculosis is the shadow of misery. If there’s a disease that is a marker of poverty, it’s tuberculosis.”— Dr. José Félix Oletta, a former health minister in Venezuela, on the disease’s aggressive comeback in the country.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Today, we end with a note from the departing writer of our European briefing, Patrick Boehler:Since the European briefings’ inception over a year ago, this has been the question I have been asked the most: “How do you know what Europeans want to read?”That’s a fair question for a journalist, albeit a European one, who has spent most of his adult life in Asia, and still is there.It is also a legitimate question for a U.S. newspaper at a time in which American news cycles are focused on the twists and turns of a tumultuous presidency.So, here’s what we do:Every day, we spend hours poring over correspondents’ dispatches and news reports from across Europe, from Iceland to Turkey.In conversations with editors, we seek to distill wider trends from the day-to-day politics and give you what you need to know to start your day.Of course, the result has often been a compromise. Is it flawed? Always.But that’s the rule for all early drafts of history.My last briefing is today’s. I’d like to invite you to keep reading, keep debating and keep challenging assumptions. Thank you for your time! Now enjoy your morning coffee._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
As Facebook grapples with a backlash over its role in spreading disinformation, an internal dispute over how to handle the threat and the public outcry is resulting in the departure of a senior executive.The impending exit of that executive — Alex Stamos, Facebook’s chief information security officer — reflects heightened leadership tension at the top of the social network. Much of the internal disagreement is rooted in how much Facebook should publicly share about how nation states misused the platform and debate over organizational changes in the run-up to the 2018 midterm elections, according to current and former employees briefed on the matter.Mr. Stamos, who plans to leave Facebook by August, had advocated more disclosure around Russian interference of the platform and some restructuring to better address the issues, but was met with resistance by colleagues, said the current and former employees. In December, Mr. Stamos’s day-to-day responsibilities were reassigned to others, they said.Mr. Stamos said he would leave Facebook but was persuaded to stay through August to oversee the transition of his responsibilities and because executives thought his departure would look bad, the people said. He has been overseeing the transfer of his security team to Facebook’s product and infrastructure divisions. His group, which once had 120 people, now has three, the current and former employees said.Mr. Stamos would be the first high-ranking employee to leave Facebook since controversy over disinformation on its site. Company leaders — including Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, and Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer — have struggled to address a growing set of problems, including Russian interference on the platform, the rise of false news and the disclosure over the weekend that 50 million of its user profiles had been harvested by Cambridge Analytica, a voter-profiling company.The developments have taken a toll internally, said the seven people briefed on the matter, who asked not to be identified because the proceedings were confidential. Some of the company’s executives are weighing their own legacies and reputations as Facebook’s image has taken a beating. Several believe the company would have been better off saying little about Russian interference and note that other companies, such as Twitter, which have stayed relatively quiet on the issue, have not had to deal with as much criticism.One central tension at Facebook has been that of the legal and policy teams versus the security team. The security team generally pushed for more disclosure about how nation states had misused the site, but the legal and policy teams have prioritized business imperatives, said the people briefed on the matter.“The people whose job is to protect the user always are fighting an uphill battle against the people whose job is to make money for the company,” said Sandy Parakilas, who worked at Facebook enforcing privacy and other rules until 2012 and now advises a nonprofit organization called the Center for Humane Technology, which is looking at the effect of technology on people.Mr. Stamos said in statement on Monday, “These are really challenging issues, and I’ve had some disagreements with all of my colleagues, including other executives.” On Twitter, he said he was “still fully engaged with my work at Facebook” and acknowledged that his role has changed, without addressing his future plans.Facebook did not have a comment on the broader issues around Mr. Stamos’s departure.Mr. Stamos joined Facebook from Yahoo in June 2015. He and other Facebook executives, such as Ms. Sandberg, disagreed early on over how proactive the social network should be in policing its own platform, said the people briefed on the matter. In his statement, Mr. Stamos said his relationship with Ms. Sandberg was “productive.”Mr. Stamos first put together a group of engineers to scour Facebook for Russian activity in June 2016, the month the Democratic National Committee announced it had been attacked by Russian hackers, the current and former employees said.By November 2016, the team had uncovered evidence that Russian operatives had aggressively pushed DNC leaks and propaganda on Facebook. That same month, Mr. Zuckerberg publicly dismissed the notion that fake news influenced the 2016 election, calling it a “pretty crazy idea.”In the ensuing months, Facebook’s security team found more Russian disinformation and propaganda on its site, according to the current and former employees. By the spring of 2017, deciding how much Russian interference to disclose publicly became a major source of contention within the company.Mr. Stamos pushed to disclose as much as possible, while others including Elliot Schrage, Facebook’s vice president of communications and policy, recommended not naming Russia without more ironclad evidence, said the current and former employees.A detailed memorandum Mr. Stamos wrote in early 2017 describing Russian interference was scrubbed for mentions of Russia and winnowed into a blog post last April that outlined, in hypothetical terms, how Facebook could be manipulated by a foreign adversary, they said. Russia was only referenced in a vague footnote. That footnote acknowledged that Facebook’s findings did not contradict a declassified January 2017 report in which the director of national intelligence concluded Russia had sought to undermine United States election, and Hillary Clinton in particular.Mr. Stamos said in his statement that “we decided that the responsible thing to do would be to make clear that our findings were consistent with those released by the U.S. intelligence community, which clearly connected the activity in their report to Russian state-sponsored actors.”But Facebook’s decision to omit Russia backfired. Weeks later, a Time magazine article revealed that Russia had created fake accounts and purchased fake ads to spread propaganda on the platform, allegations that Facebook initially denied.By last September, after Mr. Stamos’s investigation had revealed further Russian interference, Facebook was forced to reverse course. That month, the company disclosed that beginning in June 2015, Russians had paid Facebook $100,000 to run roughly 3,000 divisive ads to show the American electorate.In response, lawmakers like Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the intelligence committee, said that although Facebook’s revelation was a good first step, “I’m disappointed it’s taken 10 months of raising this issue before they’ve become much more transparent.”And the revelation also prompted more attention into how Russians had manipulated the social network. Last October and November, Facebook was grilled in front of lawmakers on Capitol Hill for Russian meddling on its platform, along with executives from Twitter and YouTube.The public reaction caused some at Facebook to recoil at revealing more, said the current and former employees. Since the 2016 election, Facebook has paid unusual attention to the reputations of Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg, conducting polls to track how they are viewed by the public, said Tavis McGinn, who was recruited to the company last April and headed the executive reputation efforts through September 2017.Mr. McGinn, who now heads Honest Data, which has done polling about Facebook’s reputation in different countries, said Facebook is “caught in a Catch-22.”“Facebook cares so much about its image that the executives don’t want to come out and tell the whole truth when things go wrong,” he said. “But if they don’t, it damages their image.”Mr. McGinn said he left Facebook after becoming disillusioned with the company’s conduct.By December 2017, Mr. Stamos, who reports to Facebook’s general counsel, proposed that he report directly to higher-ups. Facebook executives rejected that proposal and instead reassigned Mr. Stamos’s team, splitting the security team between its product team, overseen by Guy Rosen, and infrastructure team, overseen by Pedro Canahuati, according to current and former employees.Apart from managing a small team of engineers in San Francisco, Mr. Stamos has largely been left as Facebook’s security communicator. Last month, he appeared as Facebook’s representative at the Munich Security Conference.Over the weekend, after news broke that Cambridge Analytica had harvested data on as many as 50 million Facebook users, Facebook’s communications team encouraged Mr. Stamos to tweet in defense of the company, but only after it asked to approve Mr. Stamos’s tweets, according to two people briefed on the incident.After the tweets set off a furious response, Mr. Stamos deleted them.Roger B. McNamee, an early investor in Facebook who said he considered himself a mentor to Mr. Zuckerberg, said the company was failing to face the fundamental problems posed by the Russian meddling and other manipulation of content.“I told them, ‘Your business is based on trust, and you’re losing trust,’” said Mr. McNamee, a founder of the Center for Humane Technology. “They were treating it as a P.R. problem, when it’s a business problem. I couldn’t believe these guys I once knew so well had gotten so far off track.”
